////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#first-chronicles]
== The First Book of the Chronicles

*1st Chronicles | Παραλειπομένων Α' | דברי הימים א*

[#fch001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_Adam's line to Noah, 1-4. The sons of Japheth, 5-7. The sons of Ham, 8-16. The sons of Shem, 17-23. Shem's line to Abraham, 24-28. Ishmael's sons, 29-31. The sons of Keturah, 32, 33. The posterity of Abraham by Esau, 34-37. The sons of Seir, 38-42. The kings of Edom, 43-50. The chiefs of Edom, 51-54._

1 Adam, Sheth, Enosh, 2 Kenan, Mahalaleel, Jered, 3 Henoch, Methuselah, Lamech, 4 Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

5 The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras. 6 And the sons of Gomer: Ashchenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah. 7 And the sons of Javan: Elisha, Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.

8 The sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan. 9 And the sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah, and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan. 10 And Cush begot Nimrod. He began to be mighty upon the earth.

11 And Mizraim begot Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim, 12 Pathrusim, Casluhim (of whom came the Philistines), and Caphthorim.

13 And Canaan begot Zidon his first-born and Heth, 14 The Jebusite also, and the Amorite, the Girgashite, 15 The Hivite, the Archite, the Sinite, 16 The Arvadite, the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.

17 The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, Aram, Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshech. 18 And Arphaxad begot Shelah, and Shelah begot Eber. 19 And to Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg, because in his days the earth was divided, and his brother's name was Joktan. 20 And Joktan begot Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, 21 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, 22 Ebal, Abimael, Sheba, 23 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.

24 Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah, 25 Eber, Peleg, Reu, 26 Serug, Nahor, Terah, 27 Abram—the same is Abraham.

28 The sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael. 29 These are their generations. The first-born of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and then Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, 30 Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema, 31 Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael. 32 Now the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bore Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan. 33 And the sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Henoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah.

34 And Abraham begot Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel. 35 The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jaalam, and Korah. 36 The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, and Amalek. 37 The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. 38 And the sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezar, and Dishan. 39 And the sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam. And Timna was Lotan's sister. 40 The sons of Shobal: Alian, Manahath, Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. 41 The son of Anah: Dishon. And the sons of Dishon: Amram, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran. 42 The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zavan, and Jakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.

43 Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the children of Israel: Bela the son of Beor, and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 44 And when Bela was dead Jobab the son of Zera of Bozrah reigned in his stead. 45 And when Jobab was dead, Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead. 46 And when Husham was dead, Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead, and the name of his city was Avith. 47 And when Hadad was dead, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead. 48 And when Samlah was dead, Shaul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead. 49 And when Shaul was dead, Baal-hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead. 50 And when Baal-hanan was dead, Hadad reigned in his stead, and the name of his city was Pai. And his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab. 51 Hadad also died. And the chiefs of Edom were chief Timna, chief Aliah, chief Jetheth, 52 Chief Aholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon, 53 Chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar, 54 Chief Magdiel, and chief Iram. These are the chiefs of Edom.

[#fch002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_The sons of Israel, 1, 2. The posterity of Judah by Tamar, 3-12. The children of Jesse, 13-17. The posterity of Caleb the son of Hezron, 18-20. Hezron's posterity by the daughter of Machir, 21-24. Jerahmeel's posterity, 25-33. Sheshan's posterity, 34-41. Another branch of Caleb's posterity, 42-49. The posterity of Caleb the son of Hur, 50-55._

1 These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, 2 Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.

3 The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah. These three were born to him by the daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. And Er, the first-born of Judah, was evil in the sight of the LORD, and he slew him. 4 And Tamar his daughter-in-law bore him Pharez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah were five.

5 The sons of Pharez: Hezron and Hamul. 6 And the sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara; five of them in all. 7 And the son of Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Israel, who transgressed in the thing accursed. 8 And the son of Ethan: Azariah.

9 The sons also of Hezron who were born to him: Jerahmeel, Ram, and Chelubai. 10 And Ram begot Amminadab, Amminadab begot Nahshon prince of the children of Judah, 11 Nahshon begot Salma, Salma begot Boaz, 12 Boaz begot Obed, and Obed begot Jesse. 13 And Jesse begot his first-born Eliab, and Abinadab the second, Shimma the third, 14 Nethaneel the fourth, Raddai the fifth, 15 Ozem the sixth, and David the seventh, 16 Whose sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. And the three sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel. 17 And Abigail bore Amasa, and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.

18 And Caleb the son of Hezron begot children by Azubah his wife and by Jerioth. These are her sons: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon. 19 And when Azubah was dead, Caleb took to him Ephrath who bore to him Hur, 20 And Hur begot Uri, and Uri begot Bezaleel.

21 And afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he married when he was sixty years old, and she bore him Segub. 22 And Segub begot Jair who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead. 23 And he took Geshur and Aram with the towns of Jair from them, with Kenath and its towns, even sixty cities. All these belonged to the sons of Machir, the father of Gilead. 24 And after Hezron was dead in Caleb-ephratah, then Abiah, Hezron's wife, bore him Ashur the father of Tekoa.

25 And the sons of Jerahmeel the first-born of Hezron were Ram (the first-born), Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah. 26 Jerahmeel had also another wife whose name was Atarah. She was the mother of Onam. 27 And the sons of Ram the first-born of Jerahmeel were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker. 28 And the sons of Onam were Shammai and Jada. And the sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur. 29 And the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, and she bore him Ahban and Molid. 30 And the sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim. And Seled died without children. 31 And the son of Appaim: Ishi. And the son of Ishi: Sheshan. And the child of Sheshan: Ahlai. 32 And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai: Jether and Jonathan. And Jether died without children. 33 And the sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel. 34 Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. And Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha. 35 And Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant for a wife, and she bore him Attai. 36 And Attai begot Nathan, Nathan begot Zabad, 37 Zabad begot Ephlal, Ephlal begot Obed, 38 Obed begot Jehu, Jehu begot Azariah, 39 Azariah begot Helez, Helez begot Eleasah, 40 Eleasah begot Sisamai, Sisamai begot Shallum, 41 Shallum begot Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begot Elishama.

42 Now the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were Mesha his first-born, who was the father of Ziph, and the sons of Mareshah the father of Hebron. 43 And the sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema. 44 And Shema begot Raham the father of Jorkoam, and Rekem begot Shammai. 45 And the son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Beth-zur. 46 And Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez. And Haran begot Gazez. 47 And the sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph. 48 Maachah, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah. 49 She also bore Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea. And the daughter of Caleb was Achsah. 50 These were the sons of Caleb. The sons of Hur, the first-born of Ephratah: Shobal the father of Kirjath-jearim, 51 Salma the father of Beth-lehem, and Hareph the father of Beth-gader. 52 And Shobal the father of Kirjath-jearim had sons: Haroeh and half of the Manahethites. 53 And the families of Kirjath-jearim: the Ithrites, the Puhites, the Shumathites, and the Mishraites. From them came the Zereathites and the Eshtaulites. 54 The sons of Salma: Beth-lehem and the Netophathites, Ataroth-beth-joab, half of the Menahethites, and the Zorites. 55 And the families of the scribes who dwelt at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, and Suchathites. These are the Kenites who came from Hemath, the father of the house of Rechab.

[#fch003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_The sons of David, 1-9. His line to Zedekiah, 10-16. The successors of Jeconiah, 17-24._

1 Now these were the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron: the first-born Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second Daniel, of Abigail the Carmelitess; 2 The third, Absalom the son of Maachah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; 3 The fifth, Shephatiah by Abital; the sixth, Ithream by Eglah his wife. 4 These six were born to him in Hebron. And there he reigned seven years and six months. And in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years. 5 And these were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, four by Bath-shua the daughter of Ammiel, 6 And also Ibhar, Elishama, Eliphelet, 7 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, 8 Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine. 9 These were all the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines and Tamar their sister.

10 And Solomon's son was Rehoboam, Abia his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son, 11 Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son, 12 Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son, 13 Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son, 14 Amon his son, Josiah his son. 15 And the sons of Josiah were the first-born Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum. 16 And the sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son and Zedekiah his son. 17 And the sons of Jeconiah: Assir, Salathiel his son, 18 Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazar, Jecamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah. 19 And the sons of Pedaiah were Zerubbabel and Shimei. And the sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam and Hananiah, and Shelomith was their sister; 20 And Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab-hesed, five. 21 And the sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah, Jesaiah, the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shechaniah. 22 And the son of Shechaniah: Shemaiah. And the sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, Igeal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat, six. 23 And the sons of Neariah: Elioenai, Hezekiah, and Azrikam, three. 24 And the sons of Elioenai were Hodaiah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani, seven.

[#fch004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_The posterity of Judah by Caleb, the son of Hur, 1-4. Of Ashur, the posthumous son of Hezron, 5-8. Of Jabez and his prayer, 9, 10. The other families of the same stock, 11-20. The sons of Shelah, 21-23. The posterity and cities of Simeon, 24-38. Their conquest of Gedor and of the Amalekites in mount Seir, 39-43._

1 The sons of Judah: Pharez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur, and Shobal. 2 And Reaiah the son of Shobal begot Jahath, and Jahath begot Ahumai and Lahad. These are the families of the Zorathites. 3 And these were the sons of the father of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash, and the name of their sister was Hazelelponi, 4 And Penuel the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These are the sons of Hur, the first-born of Ephratah, the father of Beth-lehem. 5 And Ashur the father of Tekoa had two wives: Helah and Naarah. 6 And Naarah bore him Ahuzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah. 7 And the sons of Helah were Zereth, Jezoar, and Ethnan. 8 And Coz begot Anub, Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the son of Harum. 9 And Jabez was more honorable than his brothers. And his mother called his name Jabez, saying, "Because I bore him with sorrow." 10 And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, "Oh that you would bless me indeed and enlarge my border, and that your hand might be with me, and that you would keep me from evil so that it may not grieve me!" And God granted him that which he requested.

11 And Chelub the brother of Shuah begot Mehir, who was the father of Eshton. 12 And Eshton begot Beth-rapha, Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Ir-nahash. These are the men of Rechah.

13 And the sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah. And the sons of Othniel: Hathath, 14 Meonothai who begot Ophrah, and Seraiah who begot Joab, the father of the valley of Charashim, for they were craftsmen. 15 And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam. And the son of Elah: Kenaz. 16 And the sons of Jehaleleel: Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria, and Asareel. 17 And the sons of Ezra were Jethur, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. Mered took a wife and she bore Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa. 18 And his wife Jehudijah bore Jered the father of Gedor, Heber the father of Socho, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these are the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh whom Mered took. 19 And the sons of his wife Hodiah the sister of Naham: the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite. 20 And the sons of Shimon were Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-hanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi were Zoheth and Benzoheth. 21 The sons of Shelah the son of Judah were Er the father of Lecah, Laadah the father of Mareshah, the families of the house of those who wrought fine linen, of the house of Ashbea, 22 Jokim, the men of Chozeba, Joash, Saraph who had the dominion in Moab, and Jashubi-lehem. And these records are ancient. 23 These were the potters and those who dwelt among plants and hedges. There they dwelt with the king for his work.

24 The sons of Simeon were Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, and Shaul; 25 Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son. 26 And the sons of Mishma: Hamuel his son, Zacchur his son, and Shimei his son. 27 And Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters, but his brothers did not have many children, neither did all their family multiply like the children of Judah. 28 And they dwelt at Beer-sheba, Moladah, Hazar-shual, 29 At Bilhah, at Ezem, at Tolad, 30 At Bethuel, at Hormah, at Ziklag, 31 At Beth-marcaboth, Hazar-susim, at Beth-birei, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities until the reign of David. 32 And their villages were Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Tochen, and Ashan, five cities, 33 And also all their villages that were around the same cities to Baal. These were their habitations and their genealogy.

34 And Meshobab, Jamlech, Joshah the son of Amaziah, 35 Joel, Jehu the son of Josibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel, 36 Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah, 37 Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah— 38 These mentioned by their names were princes in their families, and the house of their fathers increased greatly. 39 And they went to the entrance of Gedor, even to the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks. 40 And they found rich and good pasture. And the land was wide, quiet, and peaceable, for those of Ham had dwelt there of old. 41 And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah and smote their tents and the habitations that were found there, destroyed them utterly to this day, and dwelt in their stead, because there was pasture there for their flocks. 42 And some of them from the sons of Simeon, five hundred men, went to mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi. 43 And they smote the rest of the Amalekites who had escaped and have dwelt there to this day.

[#fch005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_The line of Reuben (who lost his birthright) up to the captivity, 1-8. Their habitation and conquest of the Hagarites, 9, 10. The chief men and habitations of Gad, 11-17. The number and conquest of Reuben, Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh, 18-22. The habitations and chief men of that half tribe, 23, 24. Their captivity for their sin, 25, 26._

1 Now the sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel (for he was the first-born, but because he defiled his father's bed, his birth-right was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel and the genealogy is not to be reckoned after the birth-right; 2 For Judah prevailed above his brothers, and from him came the chief ruler, but the birth-right was Joseph's), 3 The sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel were Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. 4 The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son, 5 Micah his son, Reaia his son, Baal his son, 6 And Beerah his son, whom Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria carried away captive. He was prince of the Reubenites. 7 And his brothers by their families, when the genealogy of their generations was reckoned, were the chief: Jeiel, Zechariah, 8 And Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who dwelt in Aroer, even to Nebo, and Baal-meon. 9 And eastward he inhabited to the entrance of the wilderness from the Euphrates River because their livestock had multiplied in the land of Gilead. 10 And in the days of Saul they made war with the Hagarites, who fell by their hand. And they dwelt in their tents throughout all the east land of Gilead.

11 And the children of Gad dwelt over against them in the land of Bashan to Salcah: 12 Joel the chief, Shapham the next, Jaanai, and Shaphat in Bashan. 13 And their brothers of the house of their fathers were Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jachan, Zia, and Heber, seven. 14 These are the children of Abihail the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz. 15 Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, was chief of the house of their fathers. 16 And they dwelt in Gilead in Bashan and in its towns and in all the suburbs of Sharon, upon their borders. 17 All these were reckoned by genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel.

18 The sons of Reuben, the Gadites, and half the tribe of Manasseh, all who were valiant men—men able to bear buckler and sword, to shoot with bow, and skillful in war—forty-four thousand seven hundred and sixty who were able to go forth to war. 19 And they made war with the Hagarites, with Jetur, Nephish, and Nodab. 20 And they were helped against them, and the Hagarites and all who were with them were delivered into their hand, for they cried to God in the battle, and he was entreated by them because they put their trust in him. 21 And they took away their livestock: fifty thousand of their camels, two hundred and fifty thousand sheep, and two thousand donkeys; and also one hundred thousand men. 22 For many fell slain there because the war was God's. And they dwelt in their stead until the captivity.

23 And the children of the half tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land. They increased from Bashan to Baal-hermon and Senir and to mount Hermon. 24 And these were the heads of the house of their fathers: even Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of valor, famous men, and heads of the house of their fathers.

25 And they transgressed against the God of their fathers and went astray after the gods of the people of the land, whom God destroyed before them. 26 And the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria and the spirit of Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria, and he carried them away, even the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, and brought them to Halah, Habor, Hara, and to the Gozan River to this day.

[#fch006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_The sons of Levi, 1-3. The line of Eleazar up to the captivity, 4-15. The families of Gershom, Kohath, and Merari, 16-48. The office of Aaron and his line up to Ahimaaz, 49-53. The cities of the priests and Levites, 54-81._

1 The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 2 And the sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 3 And the children of Amram: Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. The sons also of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 4 Eleazar begot Phinehas, Phinehas begot Abishua, 5 Abishua begot Bukki, Bukki begot Uzzi, 6 Uzzi begot Zerahiah, Zerahiah begot Meraioth, 7 Meraioth begot Amariah, Amariah begot Ahitub, 8 Ahitub begot Zadok, Zadok begot Ahimaaz, 9 Ahimaaz begot Azariah, Azariah begot Johanan, 10 Johanan begot Azariah (it is he who executed the priest's office in the temple that Solomon built in Jerusalem), 11 Azariah begot Amariah, Amariah begot Ahitub, 12 Ahitub begot Zadok, Zadok begot Shallum, 13 Shallum begot Hilkiah, Hilkiah begot Azariah, 14 Azariah begot Seraiah, and Seraiah begot Jehozadak. 15 And Jehozadak went into captivity when the LORD carried away Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.

16 The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari. 17 And these are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei. 18 And the sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 19 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. And these are the families of the Levites according to their fathers. 20 Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son, 21 Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, and Jeaterai his son. 22 The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son, 23 Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son, 24 Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son. 25 And the sons of Elkanah: Amasai and Ahimoth. 26 As for Elkanah, the sons of Elkanah: Zophai his son, Nahath his son, 27 Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, and Elkanah his son. 28 And the sons of Samuel: the first-born Vashni and Abiah. 29 The sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzza his son, 30 Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, and Asaiah his son.

31 And these are those whom David set over the service of song in the house of the LORD after the ark had rest. 32 And they ministered before the dwelling-place of the Tabernacle of the Congregation with singing until Solomon had built the house of the LORD in Jerusalem, and then they waited on their office according to their order. 33 And these are those who waited with their children. Of the sons of the Kohathites: Heman a singer, the son of Joel, the son of Shemuel, 34 The son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah, 35 The son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai, 36 The son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah, 37 The son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, 38 The son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel; 39 And his brother Asaph who stood on his right hand, even Asaph the son of Berechiah, the son of Shimea, 40 The son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchiah, 41 The son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah, 42 The son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei, 43 The son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi; 44 And their brothers the sons of Merari stood on the left hand: Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch, 45 The son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah, 46 The son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shamer, 47 The son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi. 48 Their brothers the Levites were also appointed to all manner of service of the tabernacle of the house of God.

49 But Aaron and his sons offered upon the altar of the burnt-offering and on the altar of incense, and were appointed for all the work of the holy of holies and to make an atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded. 50 And these are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son, 51 Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son, 52 Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son, 53 Zadok his son, and Ahimaaz his son.

54 Now these are their dwelling-places throughout their encampments in their limits: to the sons of Aaron from the families of the Kohathites, for theirs was the lot, 55 They gave them Hebron in the land of Judah and its suburbs around it. 56 But the fields of the city and its villages, they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh. 57 And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of Judah, namely, Hebron (the city of refuge), Libnah with its suburbs, Jattir, Eshtemoa with its suburbs, 58 Hilen with its suburbs, Debir with its suburbs, 59 Ashan with its suburbs, Beth-shemesh with its suburbs. 60 And out of the tribe of Benjamin: Geba with its suburbs, Alemeth with its suburbs, and Anathoth with its suburbs. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen cities.

61 And to the sons of Kohath who were left of the family of that tribe, cities were given by lot out of the half tribe, namely, out of the half tribe of Manasseh, ten cities. 62 And to the sons of Gershom throughout their families were given out of the tribe of Issachar, out of the tribe of Asher, out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities. 63 To the sons of Merari were given by lot throughout their families, out of the tribe of Reuben, out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities. 64 And the children of Israel gave to the Levites these cities with their suburbs. 65 And they gave by lot out of the tribe of the children of Judah, out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, and out of the tribe of the children of Benjamin, these cities, which are called by their names.

66 And some of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities of their borders out of the tribe of Ephraim. 67 And they gave them the cities of refuge: Shechem in the mountains of Ephraim with its suburbs, Gezer with its suburbs, 68 Jokmeam with its suburbs, Beth-horon with its suburbs, 69 Ajalon with its suburbs, and Gath-rimmon with its suburbs. 70 And out of the half tribe of Manasseh: Aner with its suburbs and Bileam with its suburbs for the family of the remnant of the sons of Kohath.

71 To the sons of Gershom were given out of the family of the half tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan with its suburbs and Ashtaroth with its suburbs. 72 And out of the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh with its suburbs, Daberath with its suburbs, 73 Ramoth with its suburbs, and Anem with its suburbs. 74 And out of the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its suburbs, Abdon with its suburbs, 75 Hukok with its suburbs, and Rehob with its suburbs. 76 And out of the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee with its suburbs, Hammon with its suburbs, and Kirjathaim with its suburbs.

77 To the rest of the children of Merari were given out of the tribe of Zebulun, Rimmon with its suburbs and Tabor with its suburbs. 78 And on the other side of the Jordan by Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, were given them out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the wilderness with its suburbs, Jahzah with its suburbs, 79 Kedemoth with its suburbs, and Mephaath with its suburbs. 80 And out of the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead with its suburbs, Mahanaim with its suburbs, 81 Heshbon with its suburbs, and Jazer with its suburbs.

[#fch007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_The sons of Issachar, 1-5; of Benjamin, 6-12; of Naphtali, 13; of Manasseh, 14; and of Ephraim, 15-20. The calamity of Ephraim by the men of Gath. 21, 22. His posterity by Beriah, 23-27. Their habitations, 28, 29. The sons of Asher, 30-40._

1 Now the sons of Issachar were Tola, Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four. 2 And the sons of Tola: Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their father's house, namely, of Tola. They were valiant men of might in their generations whose number was in the days of David twenty-two thousand and six hundred. 3 And the son of Uzzi: Izrahiah. And the sons of Izrahiah: Michael, Obadiah, Joel, and Ishaiah, five. All of them were chief men. 4 And with them, by their generations, after the house of their fathers, were bands of soldiers for war, thirty-six thousand men, for they had many wives and sons. 5 And their brothers among all the families of Issachar were valiant men of might, reckoned in all by their genealogies eighty-seven thousand.

6 The sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, and Jediael, three. 7 And the sons of Bela: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth, and Iri, five, heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men of valor. They were reckoned by their genealogies twenty-two thousand and thirty-four. 8 And the sons of Becher: Zemira, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jerimoth, Abiah, Anathoth, and Alameth. All these are the sons of Becher. 9 And their number, after their genealogy by their generations, heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men of valor, was twenty thousand and two hundred. 10 The son of Jediael: Bilhan. And the sons of Bilhan: Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Chenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish, and Ahishahar. 11 All these the sons of Jediael by the heads of their fathers, mighty men of valor, were seventeen thousand and two hundred soldiers fit to go out for war and battle. 12 Shuppim and Huppim were the children of Ir. And Hushim was the son of Aher.

13 The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, Guni, Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah.

14 The sons of Manasseh: Ashriel, whom his concubine the Aramitess bore (she bore Machir the father of Gilead, 15 And Machir took for a wife the sister of Huppim and Shuppim, whose sister's name was Maachah), and the name of the second was Zelophehad, and Zelophehad had daughters. 16 And Maachah the wife of Machir bore a son and she called his name Peresh. And the name of his brother was Sheresh, and his sons were Ulam and Rakem. 17 And the son of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh. 18 And his sister Hammoleketh bore Ishod, Abiezer, and Mahalah. 19 And the sons of Shemida were Ahian, Shechem, Likhi, and Aniam.

20 And the sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, Bered his son, Tahath his son, Eladah his son, Tahath his son, 21 Zabad his son, Shuthelah his son, Ezer, and Elead, whom the men of Gath who were born in that land slew because they came down to take away their livestock. 22 And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him. 23 And when he went in to his wife, she conceived and bore a son, and he called his name Beriah because it went evil with his house. 24 (And his daughter was Sherah, who built Beth-horon the nether and the upper and Uzzen-sherah.) 25 And Rephah was his son, also Resheph, and Telah his son, Tahan his son, 26 Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son, 27 Non his son, and Jehoshua his son.

28 And their possessions and habitations were Beth-el and its towns, and eastward Naaram, and westward Gezer with its towns, Shechem also and its towns, to Gaza and its towns, 29 And by the borders of the children of Manasseh, Beth-shean and its towns, Taanach and its towns, Megiddo and its towns, and Dor and its towns. The children of Joseph the son of Israel dwelt in these.

30 The sons of Asher: Imnah, Isuah, Ishua, and Beriah. Serah was their sister. 31 And the sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel, who is the father of Birzavith. 32 And Heber begot Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham, and Shua their sister. 33 And the sons of Japhlet: Pasach, Bimhal, and Ashvath. These are the children of Japhlet. 34 And the sons of Shamer: Ahi, Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram. 35 And the sons of his brother Helem: Zophah, Imna, Shelesh, and Amal. 36 The sons of Zophah: Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, Imrah, 37 Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran, and Beera. 38 And the sons of Jether: Jephunneh, Pispah, and Ara. 39 And the sons of Ulla: Arah, Haniel, and Rezia. 40 All these were the children of Asher, heads of their father's house, choice and mighty men of valor, chief of the princes. And the number throughout the genealogy of those who were fit for war and for battle was twenty-six thousand men.

[#fch008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_The sons and chief men of Benjamin, 1-32. The stock of Saul and Jonathan, 33-40._

1 Now Benjamin begot Bela his first-born, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third, 2 Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth. 3 And the sons of Bela were Addar, Gera, Abihud, 4 Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah, 5 Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram. 6 And these are the sons of Ehud, who are the heads of the fathers of the inhabitants of Geba, and they carried them captive to Manahath: 7 Naaman, Ahiah, and Gera—he carried them captive and begot Uzza and Ahihud. 8 And Shaharaim begot children in the country of Moab after he had sent them away. Hushim and Baara were his wives. 9 And he begot by Hodesh his wife: Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcham, 10 Jeuz, Shachia, and Mirma. These were his sons, heads of the fathers. 11 And by Hushim he begot Ahitub and Elpaal. 12 The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, Shamed (who built Ono and Lod, with its town), 13 Beriah and Shema (who were heads of the fathers of the inhabitants of Ajalon, who drove away the inhabitants of Gath), 14 And Ahio, Shashak, Jeremoth. 15 Zebadiah, Arad, Ader, 16 Michael, Ispah, and Joha were the sons of Beriah. 17 And Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hezeki, Heber, 18 Ishmerai, Jezliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal. 19 And Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi, 20 Elienai, Zilthai, Eliel, 21 Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimhi. 22 And Ishpan, Heber, Eliel, 23 Abdon, Zichri, Hanan, 24 Hananiah, Elam, Antothijah, 25 Iphedeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak. 26 And Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah, 27 Jaresiah, Eliah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham. 28 These were heads of the fathers by their generations, chief men. These dwelt in Jerusalem.

29 And at Gibeon the father of Gibeon dwelt, whose wife's name was Maachah, 30 And his first-born son Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab, 31 Gedor, Ahio, and Zacher. 32 And Mikloth begot Shimeah. And these also dwelt with their brothers in Jerusalem over against them.

33 And Ner begot Kish, Kish begot Saul, and Saul begot Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab, and Esh-baal. 34 And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal begot Micah. 35 And the sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz. 36 And Ahaz begot Jehoadah, and Jehoadah begot Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri begot Moza. 37 And Moza begot Bineah. Rapha was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son. 38 And Azel had six sons whose names are these: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel. 39 And the sons of Eshek his brother were Ulam his first-born, Jehush the second, and Eliphelet the third. 40 And the sons of Ulam were mighty men of valor, archers, and had many sons and sons' sons numbering one hundred and fifty. All these are among the sons of Benjamin.

[#fch009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_The original of Israel and Judah's genealogies, 1. The Israelites, 2-9; the priests, 10-13; and the Levites, with Nethinims, which dwelt in Jerusalem, 14-26. The charge of certain Levites, 27-34. The stock of Saul and Jonathan, 35-44._

1 So all of Israel were reckoned by genealogies, and behold, they were written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah who were carried away to Babylon for their transgression.

2 Now the first inhabitants who dwelt in their possessions in their cities were the Israelites, the priests, Levites, and the Nethinims. 3 And in Jerusalem dwelt some of the children of Judah, some of the children of Benjamin, and some of the children of Ephraim and Manasseh: 4 Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, of the children of Pharez the son of Judah. 5 And of the Shilonites: Asaiah the first-born and his sons. 6 And of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel and their brothers, six hundred and ninety. 7 And of the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hasenuah, 8 And Ibneiah the son of Jeroham, and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah, 9 And their brothers, according to their generations, nine hundred and fifty-six. All these men were chief of the fathers in the house of their fathers.

10 And of the priests: Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, Jachin, 11 And Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God; 12 And Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashur, the son of Malchijah; and Maasiai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer; 13 And their brothers, heads of the house of their fathers, one thousand seven hundred and sixty, very able men for the work of the service of the house of God.

14 And of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari; 15 And Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal, and Mattaniah the son of Micah, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph; 16 And Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun; and Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites.

17 And the gatekeepers were Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahiman, and their brothers (Shallum was the chief), 18 Who until now waited in the king's gate eastward. They were gatekeepers in the companies of the children of Levi. 19 And Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brothers of the house of his father, the Korahites, were over the work of the service, keepers of the gates of the tabernacle, and their fathers, being over the host of the LORD, were keepers of the entry. 20 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was the ruler over them in time past, and the LORD was with him. 21 And Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was gatekeeper of the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 22 All these who were chosen to be gatekeepers in the gates were two hundred and twelve. These were reckoned by their genealogy in their villages, whom David and Samuel the seer ordained in their set office. 23 So they and their children had the oversight of the gates of the house of the LORD, namely, the house of the tabernacle, by wards. 24 In four quarters were the gatekeepers, toward the east, west, north, and south. 25 And their brothers, who were in their villages, were to come after seven days from time to time with them. 26 For these Levites, the four chief gatekeepers, were in their set office and were over the chambers and treasuries of the house of God. 27 And they lodged around the house of God because the charge was upon them and its opening every morning pertained to them.

28 And some of them had the charge of the ministering vessels, that they should bring them in and out by number. 29 Some of them also were appointed to oversee the vessels, all the instruments of the sanctuary, the fine flour, the wine, the oil, the frankincense, and the spices. 30 And some of the sons of the priests made the ointment of the spices. 31 And Mattithiah, one of the Levites, who was the first-born of Shallum the Korahite, had the set office over the things that were made in the pans. 32 And others of their brothers, of the sons of the Kohathites, were over the show-bread to prepare it every sabbath.

33 And these are the singers, chief of the fathers of the Levites, who, remaining in the chambers, were free, for they were employed in that work day and night. 34 These chief fathers of the Levites were chief throughout their generations. These dwelt at Jerusalem.

35 And in Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon, Jehiel, whose wife's name was Maachah, 36 And his first-born son Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab, 37 Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth. 38 And Mikloth begot Shimeam. And they also dwelt with their brothers at Jerusalem over against their brothers. 39 And Ner begot Kish, Kish begot Saul, and Saul begot Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab, and Esh-baal. 40 And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal begot Micah. 41 And the sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, and Ahaz. 42 And Ahaz begot Jarah, and Jarah begot Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri begot Moza. 43 And Moza begot Binea, and Rephaiah his son, Eleasah his son, and Azel his son. 44 And Azel had six sons whose names are these: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. These were the sons of Azel.

[#fch010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_Saul's overthrow and death, 1-7. The Philistines triumph over Saul, 8-10. The kindness of Jabesh-gilead toward Saul and his sons, 11, 12. Saul's sin, for which the kingdom was translated from him to David, 13, 14._

1 Now the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines and fell down slain on mount Gilboa. 2 And the Philistines followed hard after Saul and after his sons. And the Philistines slew Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul. 3 And the battle prevailed against Saul, and the archers hit him, and he was wounded by the archers. 4 Then Saul said to his armor-bearer, "Draw your sword and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come and abuse me." But his armor-bearer would not, for he was greatly afraid. So Saul took a sword and fell upon it. 5 And when his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell likewise on the sword and died. 6 So Saul died, and his three sons and all his house died together.

7 And when all the men of Israel who were in the valley saw that they fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook their cities and fled. And the Philistines came and dwelt in them.

8 And it came to pass on the next day when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his sons fallen on mount Gilboa. 9 And when they had stripped him, they took his head and his armor and sent into the land of the Philistines around to carry tidings to their idols and to the people. 10 And they put his armor in the house of their gods and fastened his head in the temple of Dagon.

11 And when all Jabesh-gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul, 12 They arose—all the valiant men—and took away the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons, brought them to Jabesh, buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.

13 So Saul died for his transgression which he committed against the LORD, even against the word of the LORD, which he did not keep, and also for asking counsel of one who had a familiar spirit to inquire of it, 14 And did not inquire of the LORD. Therefore, he slew him and turned the kingdom to David the son of Jesse.

[#fch011%breakable]
=== Chapter 11

[.outline.text-center]
_David by general consent is made king at Hebron, 1-3. He wins the castle of Zion from the Jebusites by Joab's valor, 4-9. A catalog of David's mighty men, 10-47._

1 Then all Israel gathered themselves to David at Hebron, saying, "Behold, we are your bone and your flesh. 2 And moreover, in time past, even when Saul was king, you were he who led out and brought in Israel. And the LORD your God said to you, 'You shall feed my people Israel and you shall be ruler over my people Israel.'" 3 Therefore, all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron. And David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the LORD. And they anointed David king over Israel according to the word of the LORD by Samuel.

4 And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, which is Jebus, where the Jebusites were, the inhabitants of the land. 5 And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, "You shall not come here." Nevertheless, David took the castle of Zion, which is the city of David. 6 And David said, "Whoever smites the Jebusites first shall be chief and captain." So Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first and was chief. 7 And David dwelt in the castle; therefore, they called it, The City of David. 8 And he built the city around, even from Millo around. And Joab repaired the rest of the city. 9 So David became greater and greater, for the LORD of hosts was with him.

10 These also are the chief of the mighty men whom David had, who strengthened themselves with him in his kingdom and with all Israel, to make him king according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel. 11 And this is the number of the mighty men whom David had: Jashobeam a Hachmonite, the chief of the captains. He lifted his spear against three hundred slain by him at one time.

12 And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who was one of the three mighty men. 13 He was with David at Pas-dammim, and there the Philistines were gathered to battle, where a parcel of ground full of barley was, and the people fled from before the Philistines. 14 And they set themselves in the midst of that parcel, delivered it, and slew the Philistines, and the LORD saved them by a great deliverance.

15 Now three of the thirty captains went down to David, to the rock at the cave of Adullam, and the host of the Philistines encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 16 And David was then in the hold, and the Philistines' garrison was then at Beth-lehem. 17 And David longed and said, "Oh that someone would give me drink of the water of the well of Beth-lehem that is at the gate!" 18 And the three broke through the host of the Philistines and drew water out of the well of Beth-lehem that was by the gate, took it, and brought it to David. But David would not drink of it, but poured it out to the LORD, 19 And said, "My God forbids me that I should do this thing. Shall I drink the blood of these men who have put their lives in jeopardy? For with the jeopardy of their lives they brought it." Therefore, he would not drink it. These three mightiest did these things.

20 And Abishai the brother of Joab, he was chief of the three. For lifting his spear against three hundred, he slew them, and had a name among the three. 21 Of the three, he was more honorable than the two, for he was their captain, but he did not attain to the first three.

22 Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done many acts, he slew two lion-like men of Moab. Also, he went down and slew a lion in a pit on a snowy day. 23 And he slew an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits high. And in the Egyptian's hand was a spear like a weaver's beam. And he went down to him with a staff, plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and slew him with his own spear. 24 Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did these things and had a name among the three mighty men. 25 Behold, he was honorable among the thirty, but did not attain to the first three. And David set him over his guard.

26 Also the valiant men of the armies were Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Beth-lehem, 27 Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite, 28 Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Antothite, 29 Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite, 30 Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite, 31 Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah who pertained to the children of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite, 32 Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite, 33 Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite, 34 The sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shage the Hararite, 35 Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphel the son of Ur, 36 Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite, 37 Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the son of Ezbai, 38 Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Haggeri, 39 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite—the armor-bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah, 40 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, 41 Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai, 42 Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite—a captain of the Reubenites, and thirty with him, 43 Hanan the son of Maachah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite, 44 Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jehiel the sons of Hothan the Aroerite, 45 Jediael the son of Shimri and Joha his brother the Tizite, 46 Eliel the Mehavite, Jeribai and Joshaviah the sons of Elnaam, Ithmah the Moabite, 47 Eliel, Obed, and Jasiel the Mesobaite.

[#fch012%breakable]
=== Chapter 12

[.outline.text-center]
_The companies that came to David at Ziklag, 1-22. The armies that came to him at Hebron, 23-40._

1 Now these are those who came to David at Ziklag while he still kept away from before Saul the son of Kish. And they were among the mighty men, helpers of the war. 2 They were armed with bows and could use both the right hand and the left in hurling stones and shooting arrows from a bow. They were Saul's kinsmen from Benjamin. 3 The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash (the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite), and Jeziel and Pelet (the sons of Azmaveth), and Berachah and Jehu the Antothite, 4 Ismaiah the Gibeonite (a mighty man among the thirty, and over the thirty), and Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, Josabad the Gederathite, 5 Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah, Shephatiah the Haruphite, 6 Elkanah, Jesiah, Azareel, Joezer, and Jashobeam (the Korhites), 7 And Joelah and Zebadiah (the sons of Jeroham of Gedor).

8 And some of the Gadites separated themselves to David in the hold in the wilderness, men of might and men of war fit for the battle who could handle shield and buckler, whose faces were like the faces of lions and were as swift as the gazelles upon the mountains: 9 Ezer the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third, 10 Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, 11 Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh, 12 Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, 13 Jeremiah the tenth, and Machbanai the eleventh. 14 These were of the sons of Gad, captains of the host. One of the least was over one hundred, and the greatest over one thousand. 15 These are those who went over the Jordan in the first month when it had overflowed all its banks, and they put to flight all those of the valleys, both toward the east and toward the west.

16 And there came some of the children of Benjamin and Judah to David at the hold. 17 And David went out to meet them and answered and said to them, "If you have come peaceably to me to help me, my heart shall be knit to you, but if you have come to betray me to my enemies, seeing there is no wrong in my hands, may the God of our fathers look on it and rebuke it." 18 Then the Spirit came upon Amasai, who was chief of the captains, and he said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"We are yours, David, [.linebr]#/# +
and on your side, son of Jesse. [.linebr]#/# +
Peace, peace to you [.linebr]#/# +
and peace to your helpers, [.linebr]#/# +
for your God helps you."
|===

Then David received them and made them captains of the band.

19 And there fell some from Manasseh to David when he came with the Philistines against Saul to battle, but they did not help them, for the lords of the Philistines upon advisement sent him away, saying, "He will fall to his master Saul to the jeopardy of our heads." 20 And as he went to Ziklag, there fell to him from Manasseh, Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu, and Zilthai—captains of the thousands who were of Manasseh. 21 And they helped David against the marauding band, for they were all mighty men of valor and were captains in the host. 22 For at that time day by day there came some to David to help him until it was a great host, like the host of God.

23 And these are the numbers of the bands who were ready armed for the war and came to David at Hebron to turn the kingdom of Saul to him, according to the word of the LORD. 24 The children of Judah who bore shield and spear were six thousand and eight hundred, ready armed for war. 25 Of the children of Simeon, mighty men of valor for war, seven thousand and one hundred. 26 Of the children of Levi four thousand and six hundred. 27 And Jehoiada was the leader of the Aaronites, and with him were three thousand and seven hundred. 28 And Zadok, a young man mighty of valor, and of his father's house twenty-two captains. 29 And of the children of Benjamin, the kindred of Saul, three thousand, for until now the greatest part of them had kept the ward of the house of Saul. 30 And of the children of Ephraim twenty thousand and eight hundred, mighty men of valor, famous throughout the house of their fathers. 31 And of the half tribe of Manasseh eighteen thousand, who were expressed by name to come and make David king. 32 And of the children of Issachar, who were men who had understanding of the times to know what Israel ought to do, their heads were two hundred, and all their brothers were at their command. 33 Of Zebulun, those who went forth to battle, expert in war with all instruments of war, were fifty thousand who could keep rank. They were not of double heart. 34 And of Naphtali there were one thousand captains, and with them thirty-seven thousand with shield and spear. 35 And of the Danites there were twenty-eight thousand and six hundred expert in war. 36 And of Asher, those who went forth to battle, expert in war, were forty thousand. 37 And on the other side of the Jordan, of the Reubenites, the Gadites, and of the half tribe of Manasseh, with all manner of instruments of war for the battle, were one hundred and twenty thousand.

38 All these men of war, who could keep rank, came with a perfect heart to Hebron to make David king over all Israel. And all the rest also of Israel were of one heart to make David king. 39 And they were there with David three days, eating and drinking, for their brothers had prepared for them. 40 Moreover, those who were near them, even as far as Issachar, Zebulun, and Naphtali, brought food on donkeys, on camels, on mules, and on oxen—abundant provision of meal, fig cakes, bunches of raisins, wine, oil, oxen, and sheep—for there was joy in Israel.

[#fch013%breakable]
=== Chapter 13

[.outline.text-center]
_David fetches the ark with great solemnity from Kirjath-jearim, 1-8. Uzza being smitten, the ark is left at the house of Obed-edom, 9-14._

1 And David consulted with the captains of thousands and of hundreds and with every leader. 2 And David said to all the congregation of Israel, "If it seems good to you, and that it is of the LORD our God, let us send abroad to our brothers everywhere who are left in all the land of Israel, and with them also to the priests and Levites who are in their cities and suburbs, so that they may assemble to us. 3 And let us bring back to us the ark of our God, for we did not inquire of it in the days of Saul." 4 And all the congregation said that they would do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people.

5 So David assembled all Israel from Shihor of Egypt even to the entrance of Hemath to bring the ark of God from Kirjath-jearim. 6 And David and all Israel went up to Baalah, that is, to Kirjath-jearim, which belonged to Judah, to bring up from there the ark of God the LORD, who dwells between the cherubim, whose name is called on it. 7 And they carried the ark of God in a new cart out of the house of Abinadab. And Uzza and Ahio drove the cart. 8 And David and all Israel played before God with all their might, with singing, with harps, with psalteries, with tambourines, with cymbals, and with trumpets.

9 And when they came to the threshing-floor of Chidon, Uzza put forth his hand to hold the ark, for the oxen stumbled. 10 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzza and he smote him because he put his hand to the ark. And there he died before God. 11 And David was displeased because the LORD had made a breach upon Uzza. Therefore, that place is called Perez-uzza to this day. 12 And David was afraid of God that day, saying, "How shall I bring the ark of God home to me?" 13 So David did not bring the ark to himself into the city of David, but carried it aside into the house of Obed-edom the Gittite. 14 And the ark of God remained with the family of Obed-edom in his house three months. And the LORD blessed the house of Obed-edom and all that he had.

[#fch014%breakable]
=== Chapter 14

[.outline.text-center]
_Hiram's kindness to David, 1. David's felicity in people, wives, and children, 2-7. His two victories against the Philistines, 8-17._

1 Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, along with timber of cedars, masons, and carpenters to build him a house. 2 And David perceived that the LORD had confirmed him king over Israel, for his kingdom was exalted on high because of his people Israel.

3 And David took more wives at Jerusalem. And David begot more sons and daughters. 4 Now these are the names of his children which he had in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, 5 Ibhar, Elishua, Elpalet, 6 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, 7 Elishama, Beeliada, and Eliphalet.

8 And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David. And David heard of it and went out against them. 9 And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. 10 And David inquired of God, saying, "Shall I go up against the Philistines? And will you deliver them into my hand?" And the LORD said to him, "Go up, for I will deliver them into your hand." 11 So they came up to Baal-perazim. And David smote them there. Then David said, "God has broken in upon my enemies by my hand like the breaking forth of waters." Therefore, they called the name of that place Baal-perazim. 12 And when they had left their gods there, David gave a commandment and they were burned with fire.

13 And the Philistines yet again spread themselves abroad in the valley. 14 Therefore, David inquired again of God. And God said to him, "Do not go up after them. Turn away from them and come upon them over against the mulberry trees. 15 And it shall be, when you hear a sound of going in the tops of the mulberry trees, then you shall go out to battle, for God has gone forth before you to smite the host of the Philistines." 16 David therefore did as God commanded him. And they smote the host of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gazer. 17 And the fame of David went out into all lands. And the LORD brought the fear of him upon all nations.

[#fch015%breakable]
=== Chapter 15

[.outline.text-center]
_David having prepared a place for the ark, the priests and Levites bring it from Obed-edom, 1-24. He performs the solemnity thereof with great joy, 25-28. Michal despises him, 29._

1 And David made himself houses in the city of David and prepared a place for the ark of God and pitched a tent for it. 2 Then David said, "No one ought to carry the ark of God but the Levites, for the LORD has chosen them to carry the ark of God and to minister to him forever." 3 And David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the LORD to its place, which he had prepared for it. 4 And David assembled the children of Aaron and the Levites. 5 Of the sons of Kohath: Uriel the chief and his brothers one hundred and twenty. 6 Of the sons of Merari: Asaiah the chief and his brothers two hundred and twenty. 7 Of the sons of Gershom: Joel the chief and his brothers one hundred and thirty. 8 Of the sons of Elizaphan: Shemaiah the chief and his brothers two hundred. 9 Of the sons of Hebron: Eliel the chief and his brothers eighty. 10 Of the sons of Uzziel: Amminadab the chief and his brothers one hundred and twelve.

11 And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab, 12 And said to them, "You are the chief of the fathers of the Levites. Sanctify yourselves—both you and your brothers—so that you may bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel to the place that I have prepared for it. 13 For because you did not do it at the first, the LORD our God made a breach upon us, for we did not seek him after the due order." 14 So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel. 15 And the children of the Levites bore the ark of God upon their shoulders with the staffs on it, as Moses commanded, according to the word of the LORD.

16 And David spoke to the chief of the Levites to appoint their brothers to be the singers with instruments of music—psalteries, harps, and cymbals—sounding aloud and lifting up the voice with joy. 17 So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his brothers, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their brothers, Ethan the son of Kushaiah; 18 And with them their brothers of the second degree: Zechariah, Ben, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Elipheleh, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel, the gatekeepers. 19 So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan were appointed to sound with cymbals of brass; 20 And Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah with psalteries on Alamoth; 21 And Mattithiah, Elipheleh, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, Jeiel, and Azaziah with harps on the Sheminith to excel. 22 And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was over the music. He directed the music because he was skillful. 23 And Berechiah and Elkanah were door-keepers for the ark. 24 And Shebaniah, Jehoshaphat, Nethaneel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer the priests blew with the trumpets before the ark of God. And Obed-edom and Jehiah were door-keepers for the ark.

25 So David, the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD from the house of Obed-edom with joy. 26 And it came to pass, when God helped the Levites who bore the ark of the covenant of the LORD, that they offered seven bulls and seven rams. 27 And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, along with all the Levites who bore the ark, the singers, and Chenaniah the master of the song with the singers. David also had upon him an ephod of linen. 28 Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD with shouting, with the sound of the horn, with trumpets, and with cymbals, making a noise with psalteries and harps.

29 And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came to the city of David, that Michal the daughter of Saul, looking out at a window, saw king David dancing and playing, and she despised him in her heart.

[#fch016%breakable]
=== Chapter 16

[.outline.text-center]
_David's festival sacrifice, 1-3. He orders a choir to sing thanksgiving, 4-6. The psalm of thanksgiving, 7-36. He appoints ministers, porters, priests, and musicians to minister continually before the ark, 37-43._

1 So they brought the ark of God and set it in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it. And they offered burnt-sacrifices and peace-offerings before God. 2 And when David had made an end of offering the burnt-offerings and the peace-offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD. 3 And he dealt to everyone of Israel, both man and woman, a loaf of bread, a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine.

4 And he appointed some of the Levites to minister before the ark of the LORD to record and to thank and praise the LORD God of Israel: 5 Asaph the chief, and next to him Zechariah, Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, and Obed-edom; and Jeiel with psalteries and with harps; but Asaph made a sound with cymbals; 6 Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests with trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.

7 Then on that day, David first delivered this psalm into the hand of Asaph and his brothers to thank the LORD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|8 "Give thanks to the LORD. Call upon his name. [.linebr]#/# +
Make his deeds known among the people.

|
|9 Sing to him. Sing psalms to him. [.linebr]#/# +
Talk of all his wondrous works.

|
|10 Glory in his holy name. [.linebr]#/# +
Let the heart of those rejoice who seek the LORD.

|
|11 Seek the LORD and his strength. [.linebr]#/# +
Seek his face continually.

|
|12 Remember his wonderful works that he has done, [.linebr]#/# +
his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth,

|
|13 O offspring of Israel his servant, [.linebr]#/# +
children of Jacob, his chosen ones.

|
|14 He is the LORD our God. [.linebr]#/# +
His judgments are in all the earth.

|
|15 Be mindful always of his covenant, [.linebr]#/# +
the word which he commanded to a thousand generations,

|
|16 Even of the covenant which he made with Abraham [.linebr]#/# +
and of his oath to Isaac,

|
|17 And which he confirmed to Jacob for a law [.linebr]#/# +
and to Israel for an everlasting covenant,

|
|18 Saying, 'To you I will give the land of Canaan, [.linebr]#/# +
the lot of your inheritance,'

|
|19 When you were but few, [.linebr]#/# +
even a few, and strangers in it.

|
|20 And when they went from nation to nation [.linebr]#/# +
and from one kingdom to another people,

|
|21 He allowed no man to do them wrong. [.linebr]#/# +
Indeed, he reproved kings for their sakes,

|
|22 Saying, 'Do not touch my anointed [.linebr]#/# +
and do my prophets no harm.'

|
|23 Sing to the LORD, all the earth. [.linebr]#/# +
Show forth from day to day his salvation.

|
|24 Declare his glory among the heathen, [.linebr]#/# +
his wonderful works among all nations.

|
|25 For the LORD is great and greatly to be praised. [.linebr]#/# +
He also is to be feared above all gods.

|
|26 For all the gods of the people are idols, [.linebr]#/# +
but the LORD made the heavens.

|
|27 Glory and honor are in his presence, [.linebr]#/# +
strength and gladness are in his place.

|
|28 Give to the LORD, you kindreds of the people, [.linebr]#/# +
give to the LORD glory and strength.

|
|29 Give to the LORD the glory due to his name. [.linebr]#/# +
Bring an offering and come before him. [.linebr]#/# +
Worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness.

|
|30 Fear before him, all the earth. [.linebr]#/# +
The world also shall be stable so that it cannot be moved.

|
|31 Let the heavens be glad and let the earth rejoice. [.linebr]#/# +
And let men say among the nations, 'The LORD reigns.'

|
|32 Let the sea roar and the fullness thereof. [.linebr]#/# +
Let the fields rejoice and all that is therein.

|
|33 Then the trees of the wood shall sing at the presence of the LORD [.linebr]#/# +
because he comes to judge the earth.

|
|34 O give thanks to the LORD, for he is good. [.linebr]#/# +
For his mercy endures forever.

|
|35 And say, 'Save us, O God of our salvation, [.linebr]#/# +
and gather us together and deliver us from the heathen [.linebr]#/# +
so that we may give thanks to your holy name [.linebr]#/# +
and glory in your praise.'

|
|36 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel [.linebr]#/# +
forever and ever."
|===

And all the people said, "Amen," and praised the LORD.

37 So he left there before the ark of the covenant of the LORD Asaph and his brothers to minister before the ark continually, as every day's work required, 38 And also Obed-edom with their brothers, sixty-eight. Obed-edom the son of Jeduthun and also Hosah were gatekeepers. 39 And David left Zadok the priest and his brothers the priests before the tabernacle of the LORD in the high place that was at Gibeon, 40 To offer burnt-offerings to the LORD upon the altar of the burnt-offering continually morning and evening and to do according to all that is written in the law of the LORD, which he commanded Israel. 41 And with them were Heman and Jeduthun and the rest who were chosen, who were expressed by name, to give thanks to the LORD because his mercy endures forever. 42 And with them were Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those who should make a sound, and with musical instruments of God. And the sons of Jeduthun were gatekeepers.

43 And all the people departed, each to his house. And David returned to bless his house.

[#fch017%breakable]
=== Chapter 17

[.outline.text-center]
_Nathan first approving the purpose of David to build God a house, 1, 2, and afterward forbids him by the word of God, 3-10. He promises him blessings and benefits in his offspring, 11-15. David's prayer and thanksgiving, 16-27._

1 Now it came to pass, as David sat in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, "Behold, I dwell in a house of cedars, but the ark of the covenant of the LORD remains under curtains." 2 Then Nathan said to David, "Do all that is in your heart, for God is with you."

3 And it came to pass the same night, that the word of God came to Nathan, saying, 4 "Go and tell David my servant, 'Thus says the LORD: "You shall not build me a house to dwell in, 5 For I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up Israel to this day, but have gone from tent to tent and from one tabernacle to another. 6 Wherever I have walked with all Israel, have I spoken a word to any of the judges of Israel whom I commanded to feed my people, saying, 'Why have you not built me a house of cedars?'"' 7 Now therefore, thus you shall say to my servant David: 'Thus says the LORD of hosts: "I took you from the sheep-fold, even from following the sheep, so that you should be ruler over my people Israel. 8 And I have been with you wherever you have walked, have cut off all your enemies from before you, and have made you a name like the name of the great men who are in the earth. 9 Also, I will ordain a place for my people Israel and will plant them, and they shall dwell in their place and shall no longer be moved, neither shall the children of wickedness waste them anymore, as at the beginning, 10 Since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel. Moreover, I will subdue all your enemies. Furthermore, I tell you that the LORD will build you a house. 11 And it shall come to pass, when your days are fulfilled that you must go to be with your fathers, that I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall be of your sons, and I will establish his kingdom. 12 He shall build me a house, and I will establish his throne forever. [[fch017-013]]13 I will be his father, and he shall be my son. And I will not take my mercy away from him, as I took it from him who was before you, 14 But I will settle him in my house and in my kingdom forever, and his throne shall be established forevermore."'" 15 According to all these words and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David.

16 And David the king came and sat before the LORD and said, "Who am I, O LORD God, and what is my house that you have brought me thus far? 17 And yet this was a small thing in your eyes, O God, for you have also spoken of your servant's house for a great while to come and have regarded me according to the estate of a man of high degree, O LORD God. 18 What can David speak more to you for the honor of your servant? For you know your servant. 19 O LORD, for your servant's sake and according to your own heart, you have done all this greatness in making known all these great things. 20 O LORD, there is no one like you, neither is there any God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 21 And what one nation in the earth is like your people Israel, whom God went to redeem to be his own people, to make you a name of greatness and awesomeness, by driving out nations from before your people, whom you have redeemed out of Egypt? 22 For you made your people Israel your own people forever, and you, LORD, became their God.

23 "And now, LORD, let the thing that you have spoken concerning your servant and concerning his house be established forever, and do as you have said. 24 Let it even be established so that your name may be magnified forever, saying, 'The LORD of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to Israel. And let the house of David your servant be established before you.' 25 For you, O my God, have told your servant that you will build him a house. Therefore, your servant has found in his heart to pray before you. 26 And now, LORD, you are God and have promised this goodness to your servant. 27 Now therefore, let it please you to bless the house of your servant so that it may be before you forever, for you bless, O LORD, and it shall be blessed forever."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.13]*: Quoted in xref:#heb001-005[Hebrews 1:5].

[#fch018%breakable]
=== Chapter 18

[.outline.text-center]
_David subdues the Philistines and the Moabites, 1, 2. He smites Hadarezer and the Syrians, 3-8. Tou sends Hadoram with presents to bless David, 9, 10. The presents and the plunder David dedicates to God, 11, 12. He puts garrisons in Edom, 13. David's officers, 14-17._

1 Now after this it came to pass that David smote the Philistines, subdued them, and took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines. 2 And he smote Moab, and the Moabites became David's servants and brought gifts.

3 And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah to Hamath as he went to establish his dominion by the Euphrates River. 4 And David took from him one thousand chariots, seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen. David also hamstrung all the chariot-horses, but reserved of them one hundred chariots.

5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer king of Zobah, David slew of the Syrians twenty-two thousand men. 6 Then David put garrisons in Syria-damascus, and the Syrians became David's servants and brought gifts. Thus the LORD preserved David wherever he went. 7 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadarezer and brought them to Jerusalem. 8 Likewise, from Tibhath and from Chun, cities of Hadarezer, David brought large amounts of brass, with which Solomon made the brazen sea, the pillars, and the vessels of brass.

9 Now when Tou king of Hamath heard how David had smitten all the host of Hadarezer king of Zobah, 10 He sent Hadoram his son to king David to inquire of his welfare and to congratulate him, because he had fought against Hadarezer and smitten him (for Hadarezer had warred with Tou), and with him all manner of vessels of gold, silver, and brass. 11 King David also dedicated them to the LORD with the silver and the gold that he brought from all these nations: from Edom, from Moab, from the children of Ammon, from the Philistines, and from Amalek.

12 Moreover, Abishai the son of Zeruiah slew of the Edomites in the valley of salt eighteen thousand. 13 And he put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became David's servants. Thus the LORD preserved David wherever he went.

14 So David reigned over all Israel and executed judgment and justice among all his people. 15 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host, Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder, 16 Zadok the son of Ahitub and Abimelech the son of Abiathar were the priests, Shavsha was scribe, 17 Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and the sons of David were chief deputies of the king.

[#fch019%breakable]
=== Chapter 19

[.outline.text-center]
_David's messengers, sent to comfort Hanun the son of Nahash, are villainously treated, 1-5. The Ammonites, strengthened by the Syrians, are overcome by Joab and Abishai, 6-15. Shophach, making a new supply of the Syrians, is slain by David, 16-19._

1 Now it came to pass after this, that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon died and his son reigned in his stead. 2 And David said, "I will show kindness to Hanun the son of Nahash because his father showed kindness to me." And David sent messengers to comfort him concerning his father. So the servants of David came into the land of the children of Ammon to Hanun to comfort him. 3 But the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun, "Do you think that David honors your father in that he has sent comforters to you? Have his servants not come to you to search, to overthrow, and to explore the land?" 4 Therefore, Hanun took David's servants, shaved them, and cut off their garments in the midst, even past the small of the back, and sent them away. 5 Then some went and told David how the men were served. And he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, "Remain in Jericho until your beards have grown, and then return."

6 And when the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious to David, Hanun and the children of Ammon sent one thousand talents of silver to hire themselves chariots and horsemen out of Mesopotamia, out of Syria-maachah, and out of Zobah. 7 So they hired thirty-two thousand chariots and the king of Maachah and his people, who came and encamped before Medeba. And the children of Ammon assembled from their cities and came to battle. 8 And when David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the host of the mighty men. 9 And the children of Ammon came out and put the battle in array before the gate of the city. And the kings who had come were by themselves in the field.

10 Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him before and behind, he selected all the choice of Israel and put them in array against the Syrians. 11 And the rest of the people he delivered to the hand of Abishai his brother, and they set themselves in array against the children of Ammon. 12 And he said, "If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall help me, but if the children of Ammon are too strong for you, then I will help you. 13 Be of good courage, and let us behave ourselves valiantly for our people and for the cities of our God. And let the LORD do that which is good in his sight." 14 So Joab and the people who were with him drew near before the Syrians to the battle, and they fled before him. 15 And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians had fled, they likewise fled before Abishai his brother and entered into the city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem.

16 And when the Syrians saw that they were defeated before Israel, they sent messengers and drew forth the Syrians who were beyond the river, and Shophach the captain of the host of Hadarezer went before them. 17 And it was told to David. And he gathered all Israel, passed over the Jordan, came upon them, and set the battle in array against them. So when David had put the battle in array against the Syrians, they fought with him. 18 But the Syrians fled before Israel, and David slew of the Syrians seven thousand men who fought in chariots, and forty thousand footmen, and killed Shophach the captain of the host. 19 And when the servants of Hadarezer saw that they were defeated before Israel, they made peace with David and became his servants. And the Syrians would not help the children of Ammon anymore.

[#fch020%breakable]
=== Chapter 20

[.outline.text-center]
_Rabbah is besieged by Joab, plundered by David, and the people thereof tortured, 1-3. Three giants are slain in three separate overthrows of the Philistines, 4-8._

1 And it came to pass, that after the year had expired, at the time that kings go out to battle, Joab led forth the power of the army and wasted the country of the children of Ammon and came and besieged Rabbah. But David remained in Jerusalem. And Joab smote Rabbah and destroyed it. 2 And David took the crown of their king from his head and found it to weigh a talent of gold, and there were precious stones in it. And it was set upon David's head. And he also brought a great quantity of plunder out of the city. 3 And he brought out the people who were in it and cut them with saws, with harrows of iron, and with axes. And thus David dealt with all the cities of the children of Ammon. And David and all the people returned to Jerusalem.

4 And it came to pass after this, that there arose war at Gezer with the Philistines. At that time Sibbechai the Hushathite slew Sippai, who was of the children of the giant, and they were subdued. 5 And there was war again with the Philistines. And Elhanan the son of Jair slew Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, whose spear-staff was like a weaver's beam. 6 And yet again there was war at Gath, where there was a man of great stature, whose fingers and toes numbered twenty-four, six on each hand and six on each foot, and he also was the son of the giant. 7 But when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea, David's brother, slew him. 8 These were born to the giant in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants.

[#fch021%breakable]
=== Chapter 21

[.outline.text-center]
_David, tempted by Satan, forces Joab to number the people, 1-4. The number of the people being brought, David repents of it, 5-8. David having three plagues propounded by Gad, chooses the pestilence, 9-13. After the death of seventy thousand, David by repentance prevents the destruction of Jerusalem, 14-17. David, by Gad's direction, purchases Ornan's threshing-floor; where having built an altar, God gives a sign of his favor by fire and stays the plague, 18-27. David sacrifices there, being restrained from Gibeon by fear of the angel, 28-30._

1 And Satan stood up against Israel and incited David to number Israel. 2 And David said to Joab and to the rulers of the people, "Go, number Israel from Beer-sheba even to Dan, and bring their number to me so that I may know it." 3 And Joab answered, "May the LORD make his people one hundred times more numerous than they are. But, my lord the king, are they not all my lord's servants? Why then does my lord require this thing? Why will he be a cause of trespass to Israel?" 4 Nevertheless, the king's word prevailed against Joab. Therefore, Joab departed, went throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem. 5 And Joab gave the sum of the number of the people to David. And all the people of Israel numbered one million and one hundred thousand men who drew sword. And Judah was four hundred and seventy thousand men who drew sword. 6 But Levi and Benjamin he did not count among them, for the king's word was abominable to Joab.

7 And God was displeased with this thing; therefore, he smote Israel. 8 And David said to God, "I have sinned greatly because I have done this thing. But now, I implore you, put away the iniquity of your servant, for I have done very foolishly."

9 And the LORD spoke to Gad, David's seer, saying, 10 "Go and tell David, saying, 'Thus says the LORD: "I offer you three things. Choose one of them so that I may do it to you."'" 11 So Gad came to David and said to him, "Thus says the LORD: 'Choose for yourself: 12 Either three years of famine, or three months to be destroyed before your foes while the sword of your enemies overtakes you, or else three days of the sword of the LORD, even the pestilence in the land and the angel of the LORD destroying throughout all the borders of Israel.' Now therefore, advise yourself what word I shall bring back to him who sent me." 13 And David said to Gad, "I am in great distress. Let me now fall into the hand of the LORD, for his mercies are very great. But do not let me fall into the hand of man."

14 So the LORD sent pestilence upon Israel, and there fell of Israel seventy thousand men. 15 And God sent an angel to Jerusalem to destroy it, and as he was destroying, the LORD beheld, and he repented of the evil and said to the angel who destroyed, "It is enough. Now stay your hand." And the angel of the LORD stood by the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 16 And David lifted up his eyes and saw the angel of the LORD stand between the earth and the heaven, having a drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders of Israel, who were clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces. 17 And David said to God, "Is it not I who commanded the people to be numbered? It is even I who have sinned and done evil indeed, but as for these sheep, what have they done? Let your hand, I pray you, O LORD my God, be upon me and on my father's house, but not upon your people so that they should be afflicted."

18 Then the angel of the LORD commanded Gad to say to David that David should go up and erect an altar to the LORD in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 19 And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spoke in the name of the LORD. 20 And Ornan turned back and saw the angel, and his four sons with him hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat. 21 And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, went out of the threshing-floor, and bowed himself to David with his face to the ground. 22 Then David said to Ornan, "Grant me the place of this threshing-floor so that I may build an altar in it to the LORD. You shall grant it to me for the full price so that the plague may be stayed from the people." 23 And Ornan said to David, "Take it for yourself, and let my lord the king do that which is good in his eyes. Behold, I also give you the oxen for burnt-offerings, the threshing instruments for wood, and the wheat for the food-offering. I give it all." 24 And king David said to Ornan, "No, but I will truly buy it for the full price, for I will not take that which is yours for the LORD, nor offer burnt-offerings without cost." 25 So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold by weight. 26 And David built an altar to the LORD there, offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings, and called upon the LORD, and he answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burnt-offering. 27 And the LORD commanded the angel, and he put up his sword back into its sheath.

28 At that time when David saw that the LORD had answered him in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite, he sacrificed there. 29 For the tabernacle of the LORD, which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of the burnt-offering were at that season in the high place at Gibeon. 30 But David could not go before it to inquire of God, for he was afraid because of the sword of the angel of the LORD.

[#fch022%breakable]
=== Chapter 22

[.outline.text-center]
_David, foreknowing the place of the temple, prepares abundance for the building of it, 1-5. He instructs Solomon in God's promises and his duty in building the temple, 6-16. He charges the princes to assist his son, 17-19._

1 Then David said, "This is the house of the LORD God, and this is the altar of the burnt-offering for Israel."

2 And David commanded to assemble the strangers who were in the land of Israel. And he set masons to hew wrought stones to build the house of God. 3 And David prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the doors of the gates and for the couplings, and also brass in abundance without weight, 4 And also cedar trees in abundance, for the Zidonians and those of Tyre brought much cedar wood to David. 5 And David said, "Solomon my son is young and tender, and the house that is to be built for the LORD must be very magnificent for fame and glory throughout all countries. I will therefore now make preparation for it." So David made abundant preparation before his death.

6 Then he called for Solomon his son and charged him to build a house for the LORD God of Israel. 7 And David said to Solomon, "My son, as for me, it was in my mind to build a house to the name of the LORD my God. 8 But the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 'You have shed blood abundantly and have made great wars. You shall not build a house to my name because you have shed much blood upon the earth in my sight. 9 Behold, a son shall be born to you who shall be a man of rest. And I will give him rest from all his enemies around, for his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quietness to Israel in his days. 10 He shall build a house for my name. And he shall be my son, and I will be his father. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel forever.' 11 Now, my son, may the LORD be with you and may you prosper and build the house of the LORD your God as he has said of you. 12 May the LORD give you wisdom and understanding and give you charge concerning Israel so that you may keep the law of the LORD your God. 13 Then you shall prosper if you take heed to fulfill the statutes and judgments which the LORD charged Moses with concerning Israel. Be strong and of good courage. Do not dread, nor be dismayed. 14 Now behold, in my trouble I have prepared for the house of the LORD one hundred thousand talents of gold and one million talents of silver, and of brass and iron without weight, for it is in abundance. I have also prepared timber and stone, and you may add to them. 15 Moreover, there are workmen with you in great numbers, hewers and workers of stone and timber, and all manner of skillful men for every manner of work. 16 Of the gold, the silver, the brass, and the iron, there is no number. Arise therefore, and work, and may the LORD be with you."

17 David also commanded all the princes of Israel to help Solomon his son, saying, 18 "Is the LORD your God not with you? And has he not given you rest on every side? For he has given the inhabitants of the land into my hand, and the land is subdued before the LORD and before his people. 19 Now set your heart and your soul to seek the LORD your God. Arise therefore, and build the sanctuary of the LORD God to bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD and the holy vessels of God into the house that is to be built to the name of the LORD."

[#fch023%breakable]
=== Chapter 23

[.outline.text-center]
_David in his old age makes Solomon king, 1. The number and distribution of the Levites, 2-6. The families of the Gershonites, 7-11. The sons of Kohath, 12-20. The sons of Merari, 21-23. The office of the Levites, 24-32._

1 So when David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son king over Israel. 2 And he assembled all the princes of Israel with the priests and the Levites.

3 Now the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years and upward, and their number by their polls, man by man, was thirty-eight thousand. 4 "Of these, twenty-four thousand were to oversee the work of the house of the LORD, and six thousand were officers and judges, 5 Four thousand were gatekeepers, and four thousand praised the LORD with the instruments which I made," said David, "to praise with them." 6 And David divided them into courses among the sons of Levi, namely, Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

7 Of the Gershonites were Laadan and Shimei. 8 The sons of Laadan: the chief was Jehiel, Zetham, and Joel, three. 9 The sons of Shimei: Shelomith, Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the chief of the fathers of Laadan. 10 And the sons of Shimei were Jahath, Zina, Jeush and Beriah. These four were the sons of Shimei. 11 And Jahath was the chief and Zizah the second, but Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons; therefore, they were in one reckoning according to their father's house.

12 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four. 13 The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses. And Aaron was separated so that he should sanctify the most holy things—he and his sons forever—to burn incense before the LORD, to minister to him, and to bless in his name forever. 14 Now concerning Moses the man of God, his sons were named among the tribe of Levi. 15 The sons of Moses were Gershom and Eliezer. 16 Of the sons of Gershom: Shebuel was the chief. 17 And the son of Eliezer was Rehabiah the chief. And Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very many. 18 The son of Izhar: Shelomith the chief. 19 Of the sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jehaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 20 Of the sons of Uzziel: Micah the first and Jesiah the second.

21 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish. 22 And Eleazar died and had no sons, but daughters, and their brothers the sons of Kish took them. 23 The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth, three.

24 These were the sons of Levi after the house of their fathers, even the chief of the fathers, as they were counted by number of names by their polls, who did the work for the service of the house of the LORD, from the age of twenty years and upward. 25 For David said, "The LORD God of Israel has given rest to his people so that they may dwell in Jerusalem forever. 26 And also the Levites shall no longer carry the tabernacle, nor any of its vessels for its service." 27 For by the last words of David the Levites were numbered from twenty years old and above, 28 Because their office was to wait on the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of the LORD, in the courts, in the chambers, in the purifying of all holy things, and the work of the service of the house of God; 29 For the show-bread, for the fine flour for food-offering, for the unleavened cakes, for that which is baked in the pan, for that which is fried, and for all manner of measure and size; 30 And to stand every morning to thank and praise the LORD, and likewise at evening; 31 And to offer all burnt-sacrifices to the LORD on the sabbaths, in the new moons, and on the set feasts, by number, according to the order commanded to them, continually before the LORD; 32 And that they should keep the charge of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, the charge of the holy place, and the charge of the sons of Aaron their brothers in the service of the house of the LORD.

[#fch024%breakable]
=== Chapter 24

[.outline.text-center]
_The division of the sons of Aaron by lot into twenty-four orders, 1-19. The Kohathites, 20-25, and the Merarites, divided by lot, 26-31._

1 Now these are the divisions of the sons of Aaron: The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 2 But Nadab and Abihu died before their father and had no children; therefore, Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest's office. 3 And David distributed them, both Zadok of the sons of Eleazar and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their offices in their service. 4 And there were more chief men found among the sons of Eleazar than among the sons of Ithamar, and thus they were divided. Among the sons of Eleazar there were sixteen chief men of the house of their fathers and eight among the sons of Ithamar according to the house of their fathers. 5 Thus they were divided by lot, one sort with another, for the governors of the sanctuary and governors of the house of God were of the sons of Eleazar and of the sons of Ithamar. 6 And Shemaiah the son of Nethaneel the scribe, one of the Levites, recorded them before the king, the princes, Zadok the priest, Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and before the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites. One principal household being taken for Eleazar and one taken for Ithamar.

7 Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah, 8 The third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, 9 The fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 10 The seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah, 11 The ninth to Jeshuah, the tenth to Shecaniah, 12 The eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, 13 The thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 14 The fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer, 15 The seventeenth to Hezer, the eighteenth to Aphses, 16 The nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezekel, 17 The twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul, 18 The twenty-third to Delaiah, and the twenty-fourth to Maaziah. 19 These were their orderings in their service to come into the house of the LORD according to their manner under Aaron their father, as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him.

20 And the rest of the sons of Levi were these: Of the sons of Amram: Shubael. Of the sons of Shubael: Jehdeiah. 21 Concerning Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, the first was Isshiah. 22 Of the Izharites: Shelomoth. Of the sons of Shelomoth: Jahath. 23 And the sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jehaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 24 Of the sons of Uzziel: Michah. Of the sons of Michah: Shamir. 25 The brother of Michah was Isshiah. Of the sons of Isshiah: Zechariah. 26 The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The son of Jaaziah: Beno. 27 The sons of Merari by Jaaziah: Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri. 28 Of Mahli came Eleazar, who had no sons. 29 Concerning Kish: the son of Kish was Jerahmeel. 30 The sons also of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites after the house of their fathers. 31 These likewise cast lots over against their brothers the sons of Aaron in the presence of David the king, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites, even the principal fathers over against their younger brothers.

[#fch025%breakable]
=== Chapter 25

[.outline.text-center]
_The number and offices of the singers, 1-7. Their division by lot into twenty-four orders, 8-31._

1 Moreover, David and the captains of the host separated for the service some of the sons of Asaph, of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who should prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbals. And this is the number of the workmen according to their service: 2 Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asarelah, the sons of Asaph under the hands of Asaph who prophesied according to the order of the king. 3 Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of their father Jeduthun who prophesied with a harp to give thanks and to praise the LORD. 4 Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth. 5 All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer in the words of God to lift up the horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. 6 All these were under the hands of their father in the music in the house of the LORD with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, for the service of the house of God, according to the king's order to Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman. 7 So their number, with their brothers who were instructed in the songs of the LORD, even all who were skillful, was two hundred and eighty-eight.

8 And they cast lots, ward against ward, the small as well as the great, the teacher as well as the scholar.

9 Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Joseph; the second to Gedaliah—he, his brothers, and sons were twelve; 10 The third to Zaccur—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 11 The fourth to Izri—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 12 The fifth to Nethaniah—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 13 The sixth to Bukkiah—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 14 The seventh to Jesharelah—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 15 The eighth to Jeshaiah—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 16 The ninth to Mattaniah—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 17 The tenth to Shimei—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 18 The eleventh to Azareel—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 19 The twelfth to Hashabiah—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 20 The thirteenth to Shubael—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 21 The fourteenth to Mattithiah—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 22 The fifteenth to Jeremoth—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 23 The sixteenth to Hananiah—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 24 The seventeenth to Joshbekashah—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 25 The eighteenth to Hanani—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 26 The nineteenth to Mallothi—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 27 The twentieth to Eliathah—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 28 The twenty-first to Hothir—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 29 The twenty-second to Giddalti—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 30 The twenty-third to Mahazioth—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve; 31 And the twenty-fourth to Romamti-ezer—he, his sons, and his brothers were twelve.

[#fch026%breakable]
=== Chapter 26

[.outline.text-center]
_The divisions of the porters, 1-12. The gates assigned by lot, 13-19. The Levites who had charge of the treasures, 20-28. Officers and judges, 29-32._

1 Concerning the divisions of the gatekeepers: Of the Korhites was Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph. 2 And the sons of Meshelemiah were Zechariah the first-born, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 3 Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, and Elioenai the seventh. 4 Moreover, the sons of Obed-edom were Shemaiah the first-born, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sacar the fourth, Nethaneel the fifth, 5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, and Peulthai the eighth, for God blessed him. 6 To Shemaiah his son, sons were also born who ruled throughout the house of their father, for they were mighty men of valor. 7 The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, Rephael, Obed, Elzabad (whose brothers were strong men), Elihu, and Semachiah. 8 All these of the sons of Obed-edom—they, their sons, and their brothers—able men for strength for the service, were sixty-two of Obed-edom. 9 And Meshelemiah had sons and brothers, strong men, eighteen. 10 Hosah, of the children of Merari, also had sons: Simri the chief (for though he was not the first-born, yet his father made him the chief), 11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, and Zechariah the fourth. All the sons and brothers of Hosah were thirteen.

12 Among these were the divisions of the gatekeepers, even among the chief men, having wards against one another, to minister in the house of the LORD. 13 And they cast lots, the small as well as the great, according to the house of their fathers, for every gate. 14 And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zechariah his son, a wise counselor, they cast lots, and his lot came out northward. 15 To Obed-edom southward, and to his sons the house of Asuppim. 16 To Shuppim and Hosah the lot came forth westward, with the gate Shallecheth, by the way of the ascent, ward against ward. 17 Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four a day, and toward Asuppim, two and two. 18 At Parbar westward, there were four at the highway and two at Parbar. 19 These are the divisions of the gatekeepers among the sons of Kore and among the sons of Merari.

20 And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house of God and over the treasures of the dedicated things. 21 As concerning the sons of Laadan, the sons of the Gershonite, Laadan, chief fathers, even of Laadan the Gershonite: Jehieli.

22 The sons of Jehieli: Zetham and Joel his brother, who were over the treasures of the house of the LORD. 23 Of the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the Uzzielites, 24 Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was ruler of the treasures. 25 And his brothers, by Eliezer, were Rehabiah his son, Jeshaiah his son, Joram his son, Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son. 26 This Shelomith and his brothers were over all the treasures of the dedicated things which David the king, the chief fathers who were the captains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the host had dedicated. 27 They dedicated some of the plunder won in battles to maintain the house of the LORD. 28 And all that Samuel the seer, Saul the son of Kish, Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah had dedicated, and whoever had dedicated anything, it was under the hand of Shelomith and of his brothers.

29 Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward business over Israel, for officers and judges. 30 And of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brothers, men of valor, one thousand and seven hundred, had the oversight of Israel beyond the Jordan westward in all the business of the LORD and in the service of the king. 31 Among the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief, even among the Hebronites, according to the generations of his fathers. In the fortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and there were found among them mighty men of valor at Jazer of Gilead. 32 And his brothers, men of valor, were two thousand and seven hundred chief fathers, whom king David made rulers over the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, for every matter pertaining to God and affairs of the king.

[#fch027%breakable]
=== Chapter 27

[.outline.text-center]
_The twelve captains for their respective month, 1-15. The princes of the twelve tribes, 16-22. The numbering of the people is hindered, 23, 24. David's various officers 25-34._

1 Now the children of Israel after their number, namely, the chief fathers, captains of thousands and hundreds, and their officers who served the king in any matter of the courses, which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year, of every course were twenty-four thousand.

2 Over the first course for the first month was Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel. And in his course were twenty-four thousand. 3 Of the children of Perez was the chief of all the captains of the host for the first month. 4 And over the course of the second month was Dodai an Ahohite, and of his course was also Mikloth the ruler. In his course likewise were twenty-four thousand. 5 The third captain of the host for the third month was Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, a chief priest. And in his course were twenty-four thousand. 6 This is that Benaiah who was mighty among the thirty and above the thirty, and in his course was Ammizabad his son. 7 The fourth captain for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab and Zebadiah his son after him. And in his course were twenty-four thousand. 8 The fifth captain for the fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite. And in his course were twenty-four thousand. 9 The sixth captain for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. And in his course were twenty-four thousand. 10 The seventh captain for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite, of the children of Ephraim. And in his course were twenty-four thousand. 11 The eighth captain for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zarhites. And in his course were twenty-four thousand. 12 The ninth captain for the ninth month was Abiezer the Anetothite, of the Benjaminites. And in his course were twenty-four thousand. 13 The tenth captain for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zarhites. And in his course were twenty-four thousand. 14 The eleventh captain for the eleventh month was Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the children of Ephraim. And in his course were twenty-four thousand. 15 The twelfth captain for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel. And in his course were twenty-four thousand.

16 Furthermore, over the tribes of Israel, the ruler of the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri; of the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maachah; 17 Of the Levites, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel; of the Aaronites, Zadok; 18 Of Judah, Elihu, one of the brothers of David; of Issachar, Omri the son of Michael; 19 Of Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; of Naphtali, Jerimoth the son of Azriel; 20 Of the children of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah; of the half tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah; 21 Of the half tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; of Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner; 22 Of Dan, Azareel the son of Jeroham. These were the princes of the tribes of Israel. 23 But David did not take the number of them from twenty years old and under because the LORD had said he would increase Israel like the stars of the heavens. 24 Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number, but he did not finish, for wrath came against Israel because of this, neither was the number put in the account of the chronicles of king David.

25 And over the king's treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel; and over the store-houses in the fields, in the cities, in the villages, and in the castles was Jehonathan the son of Uzziah; 26 And over those who did the work of the field for tillage of the ground was Ezri the son of Chelub; 27 And over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite; and over the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite; 28 And over the olive trees and the sycamore trees that were in the low plains was Baal-hanan the Gederite; and over the cellars of oil was Joash; 29 And over the herds that fed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite; and over the herds that were in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai; 30 And over the camels also was Obil the Ishmaelite; and over the donkeys was Jehdeiah the Meronothite; 31 And over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagerite. All these were the rulers of the substance which was king David's.

32 Also, Jonathan, David's uncle, was a counselor, wise man, and scribe, and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king's sons, 33 And Ahithophel was the king's counselor, and Hushai the Archite was the king's companion, 34 And after Ahithophel was Jehoiada the son of Benaiah and Abiathar, and the general of the king's army was Joab.

[#fch028%breakable]
=== Chapter 28

[.outline.text-center]
_David, in a solemn assembly, having declared God's favor to him and promise to his son Solomon, exhorts them to fear God, 1-8. He encourages Solomon to build the temple, 9, 10. He gives him patterns, gold and silver, etc., 11-21._

1 And David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the tribes, the captains of the companies that ministered to the king by course, the captains over the thousands, captains over the hundreds, and the stewards over all the substance and possession of the king and of his sons, with the officers, with the mighty men, and with all the valiant men at Jerusalem. 2 Then David the king stood upon his feet and said, "Hear me, my brothers and my people. As for me, I had in my heart to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the LORD and for the footstool of our God, and had made ready for the building. 3 But God said to me, 'You shall not build a house for my name because you have been a man of war and have shed blood.' 4 However, the LORD God of Israel chose me before all the house of my father to be king over Israel forever. For he has chosen Judah to be the ruler, and from the house of Judah, the house of my father, and among the sons of my father he approved me to make me king over all Israel. 5 And of all my sons (for the LORD has given me many sons), he has chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of the LORD over Israel. 6 And he said to me, 'Solomon your son, he shall build my house and my courts, for I have chosen him to be my son and I will be his father. 7 Moreover, I will establish his kingdom forever if he is constant to do my commandments and my judgments, as at this day.' 8 Now therefore, in the sight of all Israel the congregation of the LORD and in the audience of our God, keep and seek for all the commandments of the LORD your God so that you may possess this good land and leave it for an inheritance for your children after you forever.

9 "And you, Solomon my son, know the God of your father and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind, for the LORD searches all hearts and understands all the imaginations of the thoughts. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever. 10 Take heed now, for the LORD has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary. Be strong and do it."

11 Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch, of its houses, of its treasuries, of its upper chambers, of its inner chambers, and of the place of the mercy-seat, 12 And the pattern of all that he had by the Spirit, of the courts of the house of the LORD, and of all the chambers around, of the treasuries of the house of God, and of the treasuries of the dedicated things, 13 And also for the courses of the priests and the Levites, for all the work of the service of the house of the LORD, and for all the vessels of service in the house of the LORD. 14 He gave gold by weight for things of gold, for all instruments of all manner of service, and also silver for all instruments of silver by weight, for all instruments of every kind of service, 15 Even the weight for the candlesticks of gold and for their lamps of gold, by weight for every candlestick and for its lamps, and for the candlesticks of silver by weight, both for the candlestick and also for its lamps, according to the use of every candlestick. 16 And by weight he gave gold for the tables of show-bread, for every table, and likewise silver for the tables of silver. 17 He also gave pure gold for the flesh-hooks, the bowls, and the cups. And for the golden basins he gave gold by weight for every basin, and likewise silver by weight for every basin of silver. 18 And for the altar of incense he gave refined gold by weight. And he gave gold for the pattern of the chariot of the cherubim that spread out their wings and covered the ark of the covenant of the LORD.

19 "All this," David said, "the LORD made me understand in writing by his hand upon me, even all the works of this pattern."

20 And David said to Solomon his son, "Be strong and of good courage, and do it. Do not fear, nor be dismayed, for the LORD God, even my God, will be with you. He will not fail you, nor forsake you, until you have finished all the work for the service of the house of the LORD. 21 And behold, the courses of the priests and the Levites, even they shall be with you for all the service of the house of God. And there shall be with you for all manner of workmanship every willing skillful man for any manner of service. Also, the princes and all the people will be wholly at your command."

[#fch029%breakable]
=== Chapter 29

[.outline.text-center]
_David, by his example and entreaty, 1-5, causes the princes and people to offer willingly, 6-9. David's thanksgiving and prayer, 10-19. The people, having blessed God and sacrificed, make Solomon king, 20-25. David's reign and death, 26-30._

1 Furthermore, David the king said to all the congregation, "Solomon my son, whom alone God has chosen, is yet young and tender, and the work is great, for the palace is not for man, but for the LORD God. 2 Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the gold for things to be made of gold, the silver for things of silver, the brass for things of brass, iron for things of iron, and wood for things of wood, onyx-stones and stones to be set, glittering stones and of diverse colors, and all manner of precious stones and marble stones in abundance. 3 Moreover, because I have set my affection to the house of my God, I have given from my own possessions of gold and silver for the house of my God over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house: 4 Even three thousand talents of gold of the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of refined silver to overlay the walls of the houses, 5 The gold for things of gold, and the silver for things of silver, and for all manner of work to be made by the hands of craftsmen. And who then is willing to consecrate his service this day to the LORD?"

6 Then the chief of the fathers and princes of the tribes of Israel and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, with the rulers over the king's work, offered willingly, 7 And gave for the service of the house of God five thousand talents and ten thousand drams of gold, ten thousand talents of silver, eighteen thousand talents of brass, and one hundred thousand talents of iron. 8 And they with whom precious stones were found gave them to the treasure of the house of the LORD, by the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite. 9 Then the people rejoiced, for they offered willingly, because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the LORD. And David the king also rejoiced with great joy.

10 Therefore, David blessed the LORD before all the congregation. And David said, "Blessed are you, LORD God of Israel our father, forever and ever. 11 Yours, O LORD, is the greatness, the power, the glory, the victory, and the majesty, for all that is in the heaven and on the earth is yours. Yours is the kingdom, O LORD, and you are exalted as head above all. 12 Both riches and honor come from you, and you reign over all. And in your hand is power and might. And it is in your hand to make great and to give strength to all. 13 Now therefore, our God, we thank you and praise your glorious name.

14 "But who am I and what is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come from you, and of your own we have given you. 15 For we are strangers before you and sojourners, as were all our fathers. Our days on the earth are as a shadow and there is no abiding. 16 O LORD our God, all this store that we have prepared to build you a house for your holy name comes from your hand and is all your own. 17 I know also, my God, that you try the heart and have pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of my heart I have willingly offered all these things. And now I have seen with joy your people who are present here to offer willingly to you. 18 O LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel our fathers, keep this forever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of your people, and prepare their heart for you. 19 And give to Solomon my son a perfect heart to keep your commandments, your testimonies, and your statutes, and to do all these things and to build the palace for which I have made provision."

20 And David said to all the congregation, "Now bless the LORD your God." And all the congregation blessed the LORD God of their fathers, bowed their heads, and worshiped the LORD and the king.

21 And they sacrificed sacrifices to the LORD and offered burnt-offerings to the LORD on the next day after that day, even one thousand bulls, one thousand rams, and one thousand lambs, with their drink-offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel. 22 And they ate and drank before the LORD on that day with great gladness. And they made Solomon the son of David king the second time and anointed him to the LORD to be the chief governor, and Zadok to be priest. 23 Then Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king instead of David his father and prospered. And all Israel obeyed him. 24 And all the princes, the mighty men, and all the sons likewise of king David submitted themselves to Solomon the king. 25 And the LORD magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel.

26 Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel. 27 And the time that he reigned over Israel was forty years. Seven years he reigned in Hebron and thirty-three years he reigned in Jerusalem.

28 And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honor. And Solomon his son reigned in his stead. 29 Now the acts of David the king, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of Samuel the seer, in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer, 30 With all his reign and his might and the times that went over him, over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the countries.

[.text-center]
_[Tanach reading: go to xref:#second-chronicles[Second Chronicles]]_
