////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#first-john]
== The First Letter from John

*1st John | Ἰωάνου Α'*

[#fjn001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_John describes the person of Christ, in whom we have eternal life by fellowship with God, 1-4; to which we must add holiness of life to testify the truth of our fellowship and profession of faith and also to assure us of the forgiveness of our sins by Christ's death, 5-10._

1 That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon and our hands have handled, concerning the word of life 2 (For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and we testify and show to you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us), 3 That which we have seen and heard we declare to you so that you also may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ. 4 And these things we write to you so that your joy may be full.

5 This then is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. 6 If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not speak the truth. 7 But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanses us from all sin. 8 If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. [[fjn001-009]]9 If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. 10 If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.

[#fjn002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_John comforts them against the sins of infirmity, 1, 2. To rightly know God is to keep his commandments, 3-8; to love our brothers, 9-14; and to not love the world, 15-17. We must beware of seducers, 18, 19; from whose deceits the godly are safe, preserved by perseverance in faith and holiness of life, 20-29._

1 My little children, these things I write to you so that you do not sin. And if any man sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. 2 And he is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world.

3 And by this we know that we know him: if we keep his commandments. 4 He who says, "I know him," and does not keep his commandments is a liar and the truth is not in him. 5 But whoever keeps his word, the love of God is truly perfected in him. By this we know that we are in him. 6 He who says he abides in him, ought himself also to walk even as he walked.

7 Brothers, I write no new commandment to you, but an old commandment which you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you have heard from the beginning. 8 Again, a new commandment I write to you, which thing is true in him and in you, because the darkness is past and the true light now shines. 9 He who says he is in the light and hates his brother is in darkness even until now. 10 He who loves his brother abides in the light, and there is no occasion of stumbling in him. 11 But he who hates his brother is in darkness, walks in darkness, and does not know where he goes because darkness has blinded his eyes.

12 I write to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake. 13 I write to you, fathers, because you have known him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you have overcome the wicked one. I write to you, little children, because you have known the Father. 14 I have written to you, fathers, because you have known him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the wicked one.

15 Do not love the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. 16 For all that is in the world—the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life—is not from the Father, but is from the world. 17 And the world and its lust passes away, but he who does the will of God abides forever.

18 Little children, it is the last time. And as you have heard that the antichrist comes, even now there are many antichrists, by which we know that it is the last time. 19 They went out from us, but they did not belong to us. For if they had belonged to us, they would no doubt have continued with us. But they went out so that they might be made manifest that none of them belonged to us. 20 But you have an unction from the Holy One and you know all things. 21 I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you know it and because no lie is of the truth. 22 Who is a liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? He is the antichrist who denies the Father and the Son. 23 Whoever denies the Son, the same does not have the Father. But he who acknowledges the Son has the Father also. 24 Let that therefore abide in you which you have heard from the beginning. If that which you have heard from the beginning remains in you, you also shall continue in the Son and in the Father.

25 And this is the promise that he has promised us, even eternal life.

26 These things I have written to you concerning those who seduce you. 27 But the anointing which you have received from him abides in you, and you do not need that any man should teach you. But as the same anointing teaches you concerning all things and is truth and no lie, and even as it has taught you, you shall abide in him.

28 And now, little children, abide in him so that when he appears, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. 29 If you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone who does righteousness is born of him.

[#fjn003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_John declares the singular love of God toward us in making us his sons, 1, 2; who therefore ought obediently to keep his commandments, 3-10; as also to love one another as brothers, 11-24._

1 Behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore, the world does not know us because it did not know him. 2 Beloved, now we are the sons of God, and it does not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he appears we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. 3 And every man who has this hope in him purifies himself, even as he is pure.

[[fjn003-004]]4 Whoever commits sin also transgresses the law, for sin is the transgression of the law. 5 And you know that he was manifested to take away our sins, and in him there is no sin. 6 Whoever abides in him does not sin. Whoever sins has not seen him, neither known him. 7 Little children, let no man deceive you. He who does righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous. 8 He who commits sin is of the devil, for the devil sins from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested so that he might destroy the works of the devil. 9 Whoever is born of God does not commit sin, for his seed remains in him. And he cannot sin because he is born of God. 10 In this the children of God and the children of the devil are manifest: whoever does not do righteousness is not of God, neither he who does not love his brother.

11 For this is the message that you have heard from the beginning: that we should love one another. 12 Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one and slew his brother. And why did he slay him? Because his own works were evil and his brother's were righteous.

13 Do not marvel, my brothers, if the world hates you. 14 We know that we have passed from death to life because we love the brothers. He who does not love his brother abides in death. 15 Whoever hates his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. 16 In this we know love: because he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. 17 But he who has this world's goods and sees his brother have need and shuts up his heart of compassion from him, how does the love of God dwell in him? 18 My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. 19 And by this we know that we are of the truth and shall assure our hearts before him. 20 For if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart and knows all things. 21 Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, then we have confidence toward God. 22 And whatever we ask we receive from him because we keep his commandments and do those things that are pleasing in his sight.

23 And this is his commandment: to believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another, as he gave us commandment. 24 And he who keeps his commandments dwells in him, and he in him. And by this we know that he abides in us: by the Spirit which he has given us.

[#fjn004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_John warns them not to believe all who boast of the Spirit, 1-6; and exhorts to brotherly love, 7-21._

1 Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. 2 By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God, 3 And every spirit that does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not from God. And this is that spirit of antichrist, of which you have heard that it should come and even now already it is in the world. 4 You are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world. 5 They are of the world; therefore, they speak from the world, and the world hears them. 6 We are of God. He who knows God hears us. He who is not of God does not hear us. By this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of error.

7 Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God. And everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. 8 He who does not love does not know God, for God is love. 9 In this the love of God was manifested toward us: that God sent his only begotten Son into the world so that we might live through him. 10 In this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. 11 Beloved, if God loved us in this manner, we ought also to love one another. 12 No man has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwells in us and his love is perfected in us. 13 By this we know that we dwell in him and he in us: because he has given us of his Spirit. 14 And we have seen and testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world.

15 Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwells in him, and he in God. 16 And we have known and believed the love that God has to us. God is love. And he who dwells in love dwells in God, and God in him. 17 In this our love is made perfect so that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world. 18 There is no fear in love. But perfect love casts out fear, because fear has torment. He who fears is not made perfect in love. 19 We love him because he first loved us. 20 If a man says, "I love God," and hates his brother, he is a liar. For he who does not love his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen? 21 And this commandment we have from him: he who loves God must also love his brother.

[#fjn005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_He who loves God loves his children and keeps his commandments, 1, 2; which to the faithful are not grievous, 3-8. Jesus is the Son of God, 9-13; and is able to hear our prayers, 14-21._

1 Whoever believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. And everyone who loves him who begot loves him also who is begotten by him. 2 By this we know that we love the children of God: when we love God and keep his commandments. 3 For this is the love of God: that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not grievous. 4 For whatever is born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that overcomes the world: our faith.

5 Who is he who overcomes the world but he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God? 6 This is he who came by water and blood: Jesus Christ—not by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit who bears testimony, because the Spirit is truth. 7 For there are three who bear testimony in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit—and these three are one. 8 And there are three that bear testimony on earth: the Spirit, the water, and the blood—and these three agree in one. 9 If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater, for this is the testimony of God which he has testified of his Son. 10 He who believes in the Son of God has the witness in himself. He who does not believe God has made him a liar because he has not believed the testimony that God gave of his Son. 11 And this is the testimony: that God has given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. 12 He who has the Son has life, and he who does not have the Son of God does not have life.

13 These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God so that you may know that you have eternal life and that you may believe in the name of the Son of God. 14 And this is the confidence that we have in him: that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. 15 And if we know that he hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired from him.

16 If any man sees his brother sinning a sin not leading to death, he shall ask, and God will give him life for those who sin not leading to death. There is sin leading to death. I do not say that he shall pray for it. 17 All unrighteousness is sin, and there is sin not leading to death.

18 We know that whoever is born of God does not sin. But he who is begotten of God keeps himself, and that wicked one does not touch him. 19 And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in wickedness. 20 And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding so that we may know him who is true. And we are in him who is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life.

21 Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen.
