////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#first-kings]
== The First Book of the Kings

*1st Kings | Βασιλειῶν Γ' | מלכים א*

[#fki001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_Abishag cherishes David in his extreme age, 1-4. Adonijah aspires to the kingdom, 5-10. By the counsel of Nathan, 11-14, Bath-sheba moves the king, 15-21, and Nathan seconds her, 22-27. David renews his oath to Bath-sheba, 28-31. Solomon, by David's appointment, is anointed king by Zadok and Nathan, and the people triumph, 32-40. Jonathan brings the news, and Adonijah's guests flee, 41-49. Adonijah, fleeing to the horns of the altar, is dismissed by Solomon upon his good behavior, 50-53._

1 Now king David was old and advanced in years. And they covered him with clothes, but he did not get heat. 2 Therefore, his servants said to him, "Let a young virgin be sought for my lord the king. And let her stand before the king, let her cherish him, and let her lie in your bosom so that my lord the king may get heat." 3 So they sought for a fair young woman throughout all the borders of Israel and found Abishag a Shunamite and brought her to the king. 4 And the young woman was very fair, and she cherished the king and ministered to him, but the king did not know her.

5 Then Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, "I will be king." And he prepared himself chariots and horsemen and fifty men to run before him. 6 And his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, "Why have you done so?" And he also was a very handsome man. And his mother bore him after Absalom. 7 And he conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah and with Abiathar the priest. And following Adonijah, they helped him. 8 But Zadok the priest, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, Nathan the prophet, Shimei, Rei, and the mighty men who belonged to David were not with Adonijah.

9 And Adonijah slew sheep, oxen, and fattened calves by the stone of Zoheleth, which is by En-rogel, and called all his brothers the king's sons and all the men of Judah the king's servants, 10 But Nathan the prophet, Benaiah, the mighty men, and Solomon his brother, he did not call.

11 Therefore, Nathan spoke to Bath-sheba the mother of Solomon, saying, "Have you not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith reigns, and David our lord does not know it? 12 Now therefore, come, let me, I pray you, give you counsel so that you may save your own life and the life of your son Solomon. 13 Go at once to king David and say to him, 'Did you not, my lord, O king, swear to your servant, saying, "Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me and sit upon my throne"? Why then does Adonijah reign?' 14 Behold, while you are still talking there with the king, I will also come in after you and confirm your words."

15 And Bath-sheba went to the king into the chamber. And the king was very old, and Abishag the Shunamite ministered to the king. 16 And Bath-sheba bowed and did obeisance to the king. And the king said, "What do you wish?" 17 And she said to him, "My lord, you swore by the LORD your God to your servant, saying, 'Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me and sit upon my throne.' 18 And now, behold, Adonijah reigns, and you, my lord the king, do not know it. 19 And he has slain oxen, fattened calves, and sheep in abundance, and has called all the sons of the king, Abiathar the priest, and Joab the captain of the host, but Solomon your servant he has not called. 20 And you, my lord, O king, the eyes of all Israel are upon you, that you should tell them who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after him. 21 Otherwise, it shall come to pass, when my lord the king sleeps with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon shall be counted offenders."

22 And behold, while she was still talking with the king, Nathan the prophet also came in. 23 And they told the king, saying, "Behold, Nathan the prophet." And when he had come in before the king, he bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground. 24 And Nathan said, "My lord, O king, have you said, 'Adonijah shall reign after me and sit upon my throne'? 25 For he has gone down this day and has slain oxen, fattened calves, and sheep in abundance, and has called all the king's sons, the captains of the host, and Abiathar the priest. And behold, they eat and drink before him and say, 'God save king Adonijah.' 26 But me, even me your servant, and Zadok the priest, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and your servant Solomon, he has not called. 27 Is this thing done by my lord the king, and you have not shown it to your servant who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?"

28 Then king David answered and said, "Call to me Bath-sheba." And she came into the king's presence and stood before the king. 29 And the king swore and said, "As the LORD lives, who has redeemed my soul out of all distress, 30 Even as I swore to you by the LORD God of Israel, saying, 'Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me and sit upon my throne in my stead,' even so I will certainly do this day." 31 Then Bath-sheba bowed with her face to the earth and did reverence to the king, and said, "Let my lord king David live forever."

32 And king David said, "Call for me Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada." And they came before the king. 33 The king also said to them, "Take with you the servants of your lord and cause Solomon my son to ride upon my own mule and bring him down to Gihon. 34 And let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there king over Israel. And blow with the trumpet and say, 'God save king Solomon.' 35 Then you shall come up after him so that he may come and sit upon my throne, for he shall be king in my stead. And I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah." 36 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king and said, "Amen. May the LORD God of my lord the king say so too. 37 As the LORD has been with my lord the king, even so let him be with Solomon and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord king David."

38 So Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the Cherethites, and the Pelethites went down and caused Solomon to ride upon king David's mule and brought him to Gihon. 39 And Zadok the priest took a horn of oil out of the tabernacle and anointed Solomon. And they blew the trumpet. And all the people said, "God save king Solomon." 40 And all the people came up after him. And the people piped with pipes and rejoiced with great joy so that the earth shook with their sound.

41 And Adonijah and all the guests who were with him heard it as they had made an end of eating. And when Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, "Why is there a noisy commotion in the city?" 42 And while he still spoke, behold, Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest came. And Adonijah said to him, "Come in, for you are a valiant man and bring good tidings." 43 And Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, "Truly our lord king David has made Solomon king. 44 And the king has sent with him Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the Cherethites, and the Pelethites, and they have caused him to ride upon the king's mule. 45 And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king in Gihon. And they have come from there rejoicing so that the city resounded. This is the noise that you have heard. 46 And also Solomon sits on the throne of the kingdom. 47 And moreover, the king's servants came to bless our lord king David, saying, 'May God make the name of Solomon better than your name and make his throne greater than your throne.' And the king bowed himself upon the bed. 48 And also the king said, 'Blessed be the LORD God of Israel who has given one to sit on my throne this day, my eyes even seeing it.'"

49 And all the guests who were with Adonijah were afraid, and they arose and each went his way. 50 And Adonijah feared because of Solomon, and he arose and went and caught hold of the horns of the altar. 51 And it was told to Solomon, saying, "Behold, Adonijah fears king Solomon. For behold, he has caught hold of the horns of the altar, saying, 'Let king Solomon swear to me today that he will not slay his servant with the sword.'" 52 And Solomon said, "If he will show himself a worthy man, there shall not a hair of him fall to the earth. But if wickedness is found in him, he shall die." 53 So king Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and bowed himself to king Solomon. And Solomon said to him, "Go to your house."

[#fki002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_David, having given a charge to Solomon, 1, 2, of religiousness, 3, 4; of Joab, 5, 6; of Barzillai, 7; of Shimei, 8, 9; dies, 10, 11. Solomon succeeds, 12. Adonijah, moving Bath-sheba to appeal to Solomon for Abishag, is put to death, 13-25. Abiathar, having his life spared, is deprived of the priesthood, 26, 27. Joab, fleeing to the horns of the altar, is there slain, 28-34. Benaiah is put in Joab's place, and Zadok in Abiathar's, 35. Shimei, confined to Jerusalem by occasion of going there to Gath, is put to death, 36-46._

1 Now the days of David drew near that he should die. And he charged Solomon his son, saying, 2 "I go the way of all the earth. Be strong therefore, and show yourself a man. 3 And keep the charge of the LORD your God to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes, his commandments, his judgments, and his testimonies, as it is written in the law of Moses, so that you may prosper in all that you do and wherever you turn yourself, 4 So that the LORD may continue his word which he spoke concerning me, saying, 'If your children take heed to their way to walk before me in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, there shall not fail you,' he said, 'a man on the throne of Israel.'

5 "Moreover, you also know what Joab the son of Zeruiah did to me and what he did to the two captains of the armies of Israel, to Abner the son of Ner, and to Amasa the son of Jether, whom he slew, shedding the blood of war in peace and putting the blood of war upon his girdle that was around his loins and in his shoes that were on his feet. 6 Do therefore according to your wisdom, and do not let his hoary head go down to the grave in peace. 7 But show kindness to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite and let them be among those who eat at your table, for so they came to me when I fled because of Absalom your brother. 8 And behold, you have with you Shimei the son of Gera, a Benjaminite of Bahurim, who cursed me with a grievous curse in the day when I went to Mahanaim. But he came down to meet me at the Jordan, and I swore to him by the LORD, saying, 'I will not put you to death with the sword.' 9 Now therefore, do not hold him guiltless, for you are a wise man and know what you ought to do to him, but his hoary head you shall bring down to the grave with blood."

10 So David slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David. 11 And the days that David reigned over Israel were forty years. Seven years he reigned in Hebron and thirty-three years he reigned in Jerusalem. 12 Then Solomon was seated upon the throne of David his father, and his kingdom was greatly established.

13 And Adonijah the son of Haggith came to Bath-sheba the mother of Solomon. And she said, "Do you come peaceably?" And he said, "Peaceably." 14 He said moreover, "I have something to say to you." And she said, "Say on." 15 And he said, "You know that the kingdom was mine, and that all Israel set their faces on me that I should reign. But the kingdom has turned and become my brother's, for it was his from the LORD. 16 And now I ask one petition of you, do not deny me." And she said to him, "Say on." 17 And he said, "Speak, I pray you, to Solomon the king (for he will not deny you) that he give me Abishag the Shunamite for a wife." 18 And Bath-sheba said, "Very well. I will speak for you to the king."

19 Bath-sheba therefore went to king Solomon to speak to him for Adonijah. And the king rose up to meet her, bowed himself to her, sat down on his throne, and caused a seat to be set for the king's mother, and she sat on his right hand. 20 Then she said, "I desire one small petition of you. I pray you, do not deny me." And the king said to her, "Ask on, my mother, for I will not deny you." 21 And she said, "Let Abishag the Shunamite be given to Adonijah your brother for a wife." 22 And king Solomon answered and said to his mother, "And why do you ask Abishag the Shunamite for Adonijah? Ask for him the kingdom also, for he is my elder brother, even for him, and for Abiathar the priest, and for Joab the son of Zeruiah." 23 Then king Solomon swore by the LORD, saying, "May God do so to me and more also, if Adonijah has not spoken this word against his own life. 24 Now therefore, as the LORD lives, who has established me and set me on the throne of David my father, and who has made me a house, as he promised, Adonijah shall be put to death this day." 25 And king Solomon sent by the hand of Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and he fell upon him so that he died.

26 And to Abiathar the priest, the king said, "Depart to your own fields in Anathoth, for you are worthy of death. But I will not at this time put you to death because you bore the ark of the Lord GOD before David my father and because you have been afflicted in all in which my father was afflicted." 27 So Solomon removed Abiathar from being priest to the LORD so that he might fulfill the word of the LORD which he spoke concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.

28 Then tidings came to Joab, for Joab had turned after Adonijah, though he did not turn after Absalom. And Joab fled to the tabernacle of the LORD and caught hold of the horns of the altar. 29 And it was told to king Solomon that Joab had fled to the tabernacle of the LORD, and behold, he is by the altar. Then Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, "Go, fall upon him." 30 And Benaiah came to the tabernacle of the LORD and said to him, "Thus says the king: 'Come forth.'" And he said, "No, but I will die here." And Benaiah brought the king word again, saying, "Thus said Joab, and thus he answered me." 31 And the king said to him, "Do as he has said and fall upon him and bury him so that you may take away the innocent blood which Joab shed from me and from the house of my father. 32 And the LORD shall return his blood upon his own head, who fell upon two men more righteous and better than he is and slew them with the sword, my father David not knowing of it, namely, Abner the son of Ner, captain of the host of Israel, and Amasa the son of Jether, captain of the host of Judah. 33 Their blood shall therefore return upon the head of Joab and upon the head of his offspring forever. But upon David, upon his offspring, upon his house, and upon his throne, there shall be peace forever from the LORD." 34 So Benaiah the son of Jehoiada went, fell upon him, and slew him. And he was buried in his own house in the wilderness. 35 And the king put Benaiah the son of Jehoiada in his place over the army. And the king put Zadok the priest in the place of Abiathar.

36 And the king sent and called for Shimei and said to him, "Build yourself a house in Jerusalem, dwell there, and do not go forth from there to any place. 37 For it shall be, that on the day you go out and pass over the brook Kidron, you shall know for certain that you shall surely die. Your blood shall be upon your own head." 38 And Shimei said to the king, "The saying is good. As my lord the king has said, so your servant will do." And Shimei dwelt in Jerusalem many days.

39 And it came to pass at the end of three years, that two of the servants of Shimei ran away to Achish son of Maachah king of Gath. And they told Shimei, saying, "Behold, your servants are in Gath." 40 And Shimei arose, saddled his donkey, and went to Gath to Achish to seek his servants. And Shimei went and brought his servants from Gath. 41 And it was told to Solomon that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath and had returned. 42 And the king sent and called for Shimei and said to him, "Did I not make you swear by the LORD and testify to you, saying, 'Know for certain, on the day you go out and walk anywhere abroad, that you shall surely die'? And you said to me, 'The word that I have heard is good.' 43 Why then have you not kept the oath of the LORD and the commandment that I have charged you with?" 44 The king said moreover to Shimei, "You know all the wickedness which your heart has known that you did to David my father; therefore, the LORD will return your wickedness upon your own head. 45 And king Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the LORD forever." 46 So the king commanded Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, who went out and fell upon him so that he died. And the kingdom was established in the hand of Solomon.

[#fki003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_Solomon marries Pharaoh's daughter, 1. High places being in use, Solomon sacrifices at Gibeon, 2-4. Solomon at Gibeon, in the choice which God gave him, preferring wisdom, obtains wisdom, riches, and honor, 5-15. Solomon's judgment makes him renowned, 16-28._

1 And Solomon made himself son-in-law to Pharaoh king of Egypt, and took Pharaoh's daughter and brought her into the city of David until he had made an end of building his own house, the house of the LORD, and the wall of Jerusalem on every side. 2 Only the people sacrificed in high places because there was no house built to the name of the LORD until those days.

3 And Solomon loved the LORD, walking in the statutes of David his father. Only he sacrificed and burnt incense in high places. 4 And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place. One thousand burnt-offerings Solomon offered upon that altar. 5 In Gibeon the LORD appeared to Solomon in a dream by night. And God said, "Ask what I shall give you."

6 And Solomon said, "You have shown to your servant David my father great mercy, according as he walked before you in truth, in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with you. And you have kept for him this great kindness, that you have given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day. 7 And now, O LORD my God, you have made your servant king instead of David my father, and I am but a little child. I do not know how to go out or come in. 8 And your servant is in the midst of your people which you have chosen, a great people who cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude. 9 Give therefore to your servant an understanding heart to judge your people so that I may discern between good and bad. For who is able to judge this great people of yours?"

10 And the speech pleased the Lord, that Solomon had asked this thing. 11 And God said to him, "Because you have asked this thing and have not asked for yourself long life, neither have asked riches for yourself, nor have asked the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern judgment, 12 Behold, I have done according to your words. Behold, I have given you a wise and understanding heart, so that there has been no one like you before you, neither after you shall any arise like you. 13 And I have also given you that which you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that there shall not be any among the kings like you all your days. 14 And if you will walk in my ways to keep my statutes and my commandments as your father David walked, then I will lengthen your days."

15 And Solomon awoke. And behold, it was a dream. And he came to Jerusalem and stood before the ark of the covenant of the LORD and offered up burnt-offerings, offered peace-offerings, and made a feast for all his servants.

16 Then two women who were harlots came to the king and stood before him. 17 And one woman said, "O my lord, I and this woman dwell in one house, and I had delivered a child with her in the house. 18 And it came to pass on the third day after I had delivered, that this woman had delivered also. And we were together. There was no stranger with us in the house. Only the two of us were in the house. 19 And this woman's child died in the night because she laid upon it. 20 And she arose at midnight and took my son from beside me while your servant slept. She laid it in her bosom and laid her dead child in my bosom. 21 And when I rose in the morning to nurse my child, behold, it was dead. But when I had considered it in the morning, behold, it was not my son which I bore." 22 And the other woman said, "No, but the living is my son and the dead is your son." And the first woman said, "No, but the dead is your son and the living is my son." Thus they spoke before the king.

23 Then the king said, "One says, 'This is my son who lives and your son is the dead,' and the other says, 'No, but your son is the dead and my son is the living.'" 24 And the king said, "Bring me a sword." And they brought a sword before the king. 25 And the king said, "Divide the living child in two and give half to one and half to the other." 26 Then the woman whose child the living one was spoke to the king, for her heart yearned upon her son, and she said, "O my lord, give her the living child and in no way slay it." But the other said, "Let it be neither mine nor yours, but divide it." 27 Then the king answered and said, "Give her the living child and in no way slay it. She is its mother." 28 And all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had judged and they feared the king, for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him to do judgment.

[#fki004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_Solomon's princes. 1-6. His twelve officers for provision, 7-19. The peace and largeness of his kingdom, 20, 21. His daily provision, 22-25. His stables, 26-28. His wisdom, 29-34._

1 So king Solomon was king over all Israel. 2 And these were the princes which he had: Azariah the son of Zadok the priest, 3 Elihoreph and Ahiah the sons of Shisha were scribes, Jehosaphat the son of Ahilud the recorder, 4 Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the army, Zadok and Abiathar were the priests, 5 Azariah the son of Nathan was over the officers, Zabud the son of Nathan was principal officer and the king's friend, 6 Ahishar was over the household, and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the tribute.

7 And Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel who provided food for the king and his household. Each man made provision for a month in the year. 8 And these are their names: the son of Hur, in the mountains of Ephraim; 9 The son of Dekar, in Makaz, in Shaalbim, Beth-shemesh, and Elon-beth-hanan; 10 The son of Hesed, in Aruboth—to him pertained Sochoh and all the land of Hepher; 11 The son of Abinadab, in all the region of Dor, who had Taphath the daughter of Solomon for a wife; 12 Baana the son of Ahilud—to him pertained Taanach, Megiddo, and all Beth-shean, which is by Zartanah beneath Jezreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah, even to the place that is beyond Jokneam; 13 The son of Geber, in Ramoth-gilead—to him pertained the towns of Jair the son of Manasseh, which are in Gilead, and also to him pertained the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls and brazen bars; 14 Ahinadab the son of Iddo had Mahanaim; 15 Ahimaaz was in Naphtali—he also took Basmath the daughter of Solomon for a wife; 16 Baanah the son of Hushai was in Asher and in Aloth; 17 Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar; 18 Shimei the son of Elah, in Benjamin; 19 Geber the son of Uri was in the country of Gilead, in the country of Sihon king of the Amorites and of Og king of Bashan, and he was the only officer who was in the land.

20 Judah and Israel were many, as the sand which is by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking and making merry.

21 And Solomon reigned over all kingdoms from the river to the land of the Philistines and to the border of Egypt. They brought presents and served Solomon all the days of his life.

22 And Solomon's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, sixty measures of meal, 23 Ten fat oxen, twenty oxen out of the pastures, one hundred sheep, besides deer, gazelles, and fallow-deer, and fattened birds. 24 For he had dominion over all the region on this side of the river, from Tiphsah even to Azzah, over all the kings on this side of the river. And he had peace on all sides around him. 25 And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig-tree, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, all the days of Solomon. 26 And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots and twelve thousand horsemen. 27 And those officers provided food for king Solomon and for all who came to king Solomon's table, every man in his month. They lacked nothing. 28 Also barley and straw for the horses and dromedaries they brought to the place where the officers were, every man according to his charge.

29 And God gave Solomon great wisdom and understanding and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea-shore. 30 And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the east country and all the wisdom of Egypt. 31 For he was wiser than all men, than Ethan the Ezrahite, Heman, Chalcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol, and his fame was in all the surrounding nations. 32 And he spoke three thousand proverbs, and his songs were one thousand and five. 33 And he spoke of trees, from the cedar tree that is in Lebanon even to the hyssop that springs out of the wall. He also spoke of beasts, of birds, of creeping animals, and of fish. 34 And men came from all the peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all kings of the earth, who had heard of his wisdom.

[#fki005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_Hiram, sending to congratulate Solomon, is desired to furnish him with timber to build the temple, 1-6. Hiram, blessing God for Solomon and requesting food for his family, furnishes him with trees, 7-12. The number of Solomon's workmen and laborers, 13-18._

1 And Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon, for he had heard that they had anointed him king in place of his father, for Hiram always loved David. 2 And Solomon sent to Hiram, saying, 3 "You know how David my father could not build a house to the name of the LORD his God, for the wars which were around him on every side, until the LORD put them under the soles of his feet. 4 But now the LORD my God has given me rest on every side so that there is neither adversary nor evil occurrence. 5 And behold, I purpose to build a house to the name of the LORD my God, as the LORD spoke to David my father, saying, 'Your son, whom I will set upon your throne in your stead, he shall build a house to my name.' 6 Now therefore, command that they hew for me cedar trees out of Lebanon. And my servants shall be with your servants, and I will give hire to you for your servants according to all that you shall appoint, for you know that there is not among us anyone who is skilled in hewing timber like the Sidonians."

7 And it came to pass, when Hiram heard the words of Solomon, that he rejoiced greatly and said, "Blessed be the LORD this day who has given to David a wise son over this great people." 8 And Hiram sent to Solomon, saying, "I have considered the things which you sent to me for, and I will perform all your desire concerning timber of cedar and concerning timber of fir. 9 My servants shall bring them down from Lebanon to the sea, and I will convey them by sea in rafts to the place that you shall appoint me and cause them to be discharged there, and you shall receive them. And you shall accomplish my desire in giving food for my household." 10 So Hiram gave Solomon cedar trees and fir trees according to all his desire. 11 And Solomon gave Hiram twenty thousand measures of wheat for food to his household and twenty measures of pure oil. Thus Solomon gave to Hiram year by year. 12 And the LORD gave Solomon wisdom, as he promised him. And there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and the two of them made a league together.

13 And king Solomon raised a levy out of all Israel, and the levy was thirty thousand men. 14 And he sent them to Lebanon ten thousand a month by courses. They were a month in Lebanon and two months at home. And Adoniram was over the levy. 15 And Solomon had seventy thousand who bore burdens and eighty thousand hewers in the mountains, 16 Besides Solomon's three thousand and three hundred chief officers who were over the work and ruled over the people who wrought in the work. 17 And the king commanded, and they hewed great, costly stones to lay the foundation of the house with wrought stones. 18 And Solomon's builders and Hiram's builders hewed them, along with the stone-squarers. So they prepared timber and stones to build the house.

[#fki006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_The building of Solomon's temple, 1-4. The chambers thereof, 5-10. God's promise to it, 11-14. The ceiling and adorning of it, 15-22. The cherubim, 23-30. The doors, 31-35. The court, 36. The time of building it, 37, 38._

1 And it came to pass in the four hundred and eightieth year after the children of Israel had come out of the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel, in the month of Zif, which is the second month, that he began to build the house of the LORD. 2 And the house which king Solomon built for the LORD, its length was sixty cubits, its breadth twenty cubits, and its height thirty cubits. 3 And the porch before the temple of the house, twenty cubits was its length, according to the breadth of the house, and ten cubits was its breadth, before the house. 4 And for the house he made windows of narrow lights. 5 And against the wall of the house he built chambers all around, against the walls of the house all around, both of the temple and of the oracle. And he made chambers all around. 6 The nethermost chamber was five cubits broad, the middle was six cubits broad, and the third was seven cubits broad. For outside in the wall of the house he made narrowed rests all around so that the beams should not be fastened in the walls of the house.

7 And the house, when it was in building, was built of stone made ready before it was brought there so that there was neither hammer, ax, nor any tool of iron heard in the house while it was in building.

8 The door for the middle chamber was on the right side of the house. And they went up with winding stairs into the middle chamber, and out of the middle into the third. 9 So he built the house and finished it and covered the house with beams and boards of cedar. 10 And then he built chambers against all the house five cubits high. And they rested on the house with timber of cedar.

11 And the word of the LORD came to Solomon, saying, 12 "Concerning this house which you are in building, if you will walk in my statutes, execute my judgments, and keep all my commandments to walk in them, then I will perform my word with you which I spoke to David your father. 13 And I will dwell among the children of Israel and will not forsake my people Israel."

14 So Solomon built the house and finished it. 15 And he built the walls of the house inside with boards of cedar, both the floor of the house and the walls of the ceiling. And he covered them on the inside with wood, and covered the floor of the house with planks of fir. 16 And he built twenty cubits on the sides of the house, both the floor and the walls with boards of cedar. He even built them for it within, even for the oracle, even for the holy of holies. 17 And the house, that is, the temple before it, was forty cubits long. 18 And the cedar of the house within was carved with knobs and open flowers. All was cedar. There was no stone seen. 19 And he prepared the oracle within the house to set the ark of the covenant of the LORD there. 20 And the oracle in the forepart was twenty cubits in length, twenty cubits in breadth, and twenty cubits in its height, and he overlaid it with pure gold. And he also overlaid the altar which was of cedar. 21 So Solomon overlaid the house inside with pure gold. And he made a partition by the chains of gold before the oracle and he overlaid it with gold. 22 And the whole house he overlaid with gold until he had finished all the house. Also the whole altar that was by the oracle he overlaid with gold.

23 And within the oracle he made two cherubim of olive tree, each ten cubits high. 24 And five cubits was one wing of the cherub and five cubits the other wing of the cherub. From the uttermost part of one wing to the uttermost part of the other were ten cubits. 25 And the other cherub was ten cubits. Both the cherubim were of one measure and one size. 26 The height of one cherub was ten cubits, and that was the height of the other cherub. 27 And he set the cherubim within the inner house. And they stretched forth the wings of the cherubim so that the wing of one touched one wall and the wing of the other cherub touched the other wall, and their wings touched one another in the midst of the house. 28 And he overlaid the cherubim with gold.

29 And he carved all the walls of the house around with carved figures of cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers, inside and outside. 30 And the floor of the house he overlaid with gold, inside and outside.

31 And for the entrance of the oracle he made doors of olive tree. The lintel and side-posts were a fifth part of the wall. 32 The two doors were also of olive tree, and he carved upon them carvings of cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers, and overlaid them with gold. And he spread gold upon the cherubim and upon the palm trees.

33 In the same manner he also made for the door of the temple posts of olive tree out of a fourth part of the wall. 34 And the two doors were of fir tree. The two leaves of one door were folding and the two leaves of the other door were folding. 35 And he carved thereon cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers, and covered them with gold, fitted upon the carved work. 36 And he built the inner court with three rows of hewn stone and a row of cedar beams.

37 The foundation of the house of the LORD was laid in the fourth year, in the month of Zif. 38 And in the eleventh year, in the month of Bul (which is the eighth month), the house was finished throughout all its parts and according to all its fashion. So he was seven years in building it.

[#fki007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_The building of Solomon's house, 1. Of the house of Lebanon, 2-5. Of the porch of pillars, 6. Of the porch of judgment, 7. Of the house for Pharaoh's daughter, 8-12. Hiram's work of the two pillars, 13-22. Of the molten sea, 23-26. Of the ten bases, 27-37. Of the ten basins, 38, 39, and all the vessels, 40-51._

1 And Solomon built his own house in thirteen years, and finished all his house. 2 He also built the House of the Forest of Lebanon. Its length was one hundred cubits, its breadth fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits, upon four rows of cedar pillars, with cedar beams upon the pillars. 3 And it was covered with cedar above upon the beams that lay on forty-five pillars, fifteen in a row. 4 And there were windows in three rows, and window was against window in three ranks. 5 And all the doors and posts were square with beams, and window was against window in three ranks.

6 And he made a porch of pillars. Its length was fifty cubits and its breadth thirty cubits. And the porch was before them, and the other pillars and the thick beams were before them.

7 Then he made a porch for the throne where he might judge, even the porch of judgment. And it was covered with cedar from one side of the floor to the other.

8 And his house where he dwelt had another court within the porch, which was of similar work. Solomon also made a house like this porch for Pharaoh's daughter, whom he had married.

9 All these were of costly stones, according to the measures of hewn stones sawed with saws inside and outside, even from the foundation to the coping and likewise on the outside toward the great court.

10 And the foundation was of costly stones, even great stones, stones of ten cubits and stones of eight cubits. 11 And above were costly stones, after the measures of hewn stones, and cedars. 12 And the great court around was with three rows of hewn stones and a row of cedar beams, both for the inner court of the house of the LORD and for the porch of the house.

13 And king Solomon sent and brought Hiram out of Tyre. 14 He was a widow's son of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man of Tyre, a worker in brass. And he was filled with wisdom, understanding, and skill to work all works in brass. And he came to king Solomon and wrought all his work.

15 For he cast two pillars of brass, each of eighteen cubits high, and a line of twelve cubits encompassed each of them. 16 And he made two capitals of molten brass to set upon the tops of the pillars. The height of one capital was five cubits and the height of the other capital was five cubits. 17 And there were nets of checker-work and wreaths of chain-work for the capitals which were upon the top of the pillars, seven for one capital and seven for the other capital. 18 And he made the pillars with two rows of pomegranates around upon one net-work to cover the capitals that were upon the top. And he did likewise for the other capital. 19 And the capitals that were upon the top of the pillars were of lily-work in the porch, four cubits. 20 And the capitals upon the two pillars also had pomegranates above, over against the belly which was by the net-work. And the pomegranates were two hundred in rows around upon the other capital. 21 And he set up the pillars in the porch of the temple. And he set up the right pillar and called its name Jachin, and he set up the left pillar and called its name Boaz. 22 And upon the top of the pillars was lily-work. So the work of the pillars was finished.

23 And he made a molten sea, ten cubits from one brim to the other. It was entirely round and its height was five cubits, and a line of thirty cubits encompassed it. 24 And under its brim around there were knobs compassing it, ten in a cubit, compassing the sea around. The knobs were cast in two rows when it was cast. 25 It stood upon twelve oxen: three looking toward the north, three looking toward the west, three looking toward the south, and three looking toward the east. And the sea was set above upon them, and all their hindquarters were inward. 26 And it was a hand-breadth thick, and its brim was wrought like the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies. It contained two thousand baths.

27 And he made ten bases of brass. Four cubits was the length of one base, four cubits its breadth, and three cubits its height. 28 And the work of the bases was in this manner: They had borders, and the borders were between the ledges, 29 And on the borders that were between the ledges were lions, oxen, and cherubim. And upon the ledges there was a base above, and beneath the lions and oxen were wreaths of hanging work. 30 And every base had four brazen wheels and plates of brass, and its four corners had supports. Under the basin were molten supports, with wreaths at the side of each. 31 And its mouth within the capital and above was a cubit, but its mouth was round after the work of the base, a cubit and a half. And also upon its mouth were engravings, and their borders were square, not round. 32 And under the borders were four wheels. And the axletrees of the wheels were joined to the base. And the height of a wheel was a cubit and a half. 33 And the work of the wheels was like the work of a chariot wheel. Their axletrees, their rims, their hubs, and their spokes were all molten. 34 And there were four supports at the four corners of one base. And the supports were of one piece with the base itself. 35 And on the top of the base there was a round compass of half a cubit high, and on the top of the base its ledges and its borders were of the same. 36 For on the plates of its ledges and on its borders he engraved cherubim, lions, and palm trees, according to the proportion of each, with wreaths around. 37 After this manner he made the ten bases. All of them had one casting, one measure, and one size.

38 Then he made ten basins of brass. One basin contained forty baths, and every basin was four cubits. And upon each of the ten bases was one basin. 39 And he put five bases on the right side of the house and five on the left side of the house. And he set the sea on the right side of the house eastward over against the south.

40 And Hiram made the basins, the shovels, and the bowls. So Hiram made an end of doing all the work that he executed for king Solomon for the house of the LORD: 41 The two pillars and the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the two pillars; and the two net-works to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were upon the top of the pillars; 42 And four hundred pomegranates for the two net-works, even two rows of pomegranates for one net-work, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were upon the pillars; 43 And the ten bases, and ten basins on the bases; 44 And one sea, and twelve oxen under the sea; 45 And the pots, the shovels, and the basins. And all these vessels which Hiram made for king Solomon for the house of the LORD were of bright brass. 46 In the plain of the Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zarthan. 47 And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed because they were very numerous, neither was the weight of the brass ascertained.

48 And Solomon made all the vessels that pertained to the house of the LORD: the altar of gold; the table of gold, upon which was the show-bread; 49 The candlesticks of pure gold, five on the right side and five on the left, before the oracle; the flowers, the lamps, the tongs of gold; 50 The bowls, the snuffers, the basins, the spoons, and the censers of pure gold; and the hinges of gold, both for the doors of the inner house, the holy of holies, and for the doors of the house, namely, of the temple.

51 So all the work that king Solomon made for the house of the LORD was finished. And Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated. Even the silver, the gold, and the vessels he placed among the treasures of the house of the LORD.

[#fki008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_The feast of the dedication of the temple, 1-11. Solomon's blessing, 12-21, 54-61. Solomon's prayer, 22-53. His sacrifice of peace offerings, 62-66._

1 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel, to king Solomon in Jerusalem, so that they might bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of the city of David, which is Zion. 2 And all the men of Israel assembled themselves to king Solomon at the feast in the month of Ethanim, which is the seventh month. 3 And all the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark. 4 And they brought the ark of the LORD, the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle, even those the priests and the Levites brought. 5 And king Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, who were assembled to him, were with him before the ark, sacrificing sheep and oxen that could not be told nor numbered for multitude. 6 And the priests brought the ark of the covenant of the LORD to its place, into the oracle of the house, to the holy of holies, even under the wings of the cherubim. 7 For the cherubim spread forth their two wings over the place of the ark and the cherubim covered the ark and the staffs thereof above. 8 And they drew out the staffs so that the ends of the staffs were seen out in the holy place before the oracle, and they were not seen outside. And they are there to this day. 9 There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets of stone, which Moses deposited there at Horeb when the LORD made a covenant with the children of Israel when they came out of the land of Egypt. 10 And it came to pass, when the priests had come out of the holy place, that the cloud filled the house of the LORD 11 So that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD had filled the house of the LORD.

12 Then Solomon spoke,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"The LORD said that he would dwell [.linebr]#/# +
in the thick darkness.

|
|13 I have surely built you a house to dwell in, [.linebr]#/# +
a settled place for you to abide in forever."
|===

14 And the king turned his face around and blessed all the congregation of Israel. And all the congregation of Israel was standing. 15 And he said, "Blessed be the LORD God of Israel who spoke with his mouth to David my father and has with his hand fulfilled it, saying, 16 'Since the day that I brought forth my people Israel from Egypt, I have chosen no city out of all the tribes of Israel to build a house so that my name might be therein, but I chose David to be over my people Israel.' 17 And it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of the LORD God of Israel. 18 And the LORD said to David my father, 'Whereas it was in your heart to build a house to my name, you did well that it was in your heart. 19 Nevertheless, you shall not build the house, but your son who shall come forth out of your loins, he shall build the house to my name.' 20 And the LORD has performed his word that he spoke, and I have risen in place of David my father and sit on the throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built a house for the name of the LORD God of Israel. 21 And I have set a place for the ark there, in which is the covenant of the LORD which he made with our fathers when he brought them from the land of Egypt."

22 And Solomon stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the congregation of Israel and spread forth his hands toward Heaven. 23 And he said, "LORD God of Israel, there is no God like you in heaven above or on earth beneath, who keeps covenant and mercy with your servants who walk before you with all their heart, 24 Who have kept with your servant David my father that which you promised him. You spoke also with your mouth and have fulfilled it with your hand, as it is this day. 25 Now therefore, LORD God of Israel, keep with your servant David my father that which you promised him, saying, 'There shall not fail you a man in my sight to sit on the throne of Israel, provided your children take heed to their way to walk before me as you have walked before me.' 26 And now, O God of Israel, let your word, I pray you, be verified which you spoke to your servant David my father.

27 "But will God indeed dwell on the earth? Behold, the heaven and heaven of heavens cannot contain you. How much less this house that I have built? 28 Yet have respect to the prayer of your servant and to his supplication, O LORD my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which your servant prays before you this day, 29 So that your eyes may be open toward this house night and day, even toward the place of which you have said, 'My name shall be there,' so that you may listen to the prayer which your servant makes toward this place. 30 And listen to the supplication of your servant and of your people Israel when they pray toward this place. And hear in heaven your dwelling-place. And when you hear, forgive.

31 "If any man trespasses against his neighbor, and an oath is laid upon him to cause him to swear, and the oath comes before your altar in this house, 32 Then hear in heaven and do, and judge your servants, condemning the wicked to bring his way upon his head, and justifying the righteous to give him according to his righteousness.

33 "When your people Israel are smitten before the enemy because they have sinned against you, and they turn back to you, confess your name, pray, and make supplication to you in this house, 34 Then hear in heaven and forgive the sin of your people Israel and bring them back to the land which you gave to their fathers.

35 "When heaven is shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned against you, if they pray toward this place, confess your name, and turn from their sin when you afflict them, 36 Then hear in heaven and forgive the sin of your servants and of your people Israel so that you may teach them the good way in which they should walk and give rain upon your land which you have given to your people for an inheritance.

37 "If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, blight, mildew, swarming-locust, or if there is ravaging-locust, if their enemy besieges them in the land of their cities, whatever plague, whatever sickness there is, 38 Whatever prayer and supplication is made by any man or by all your people Israel, who shall each know the plague of his own heart, and spread forth his hands toward this house, 39 Then hear in heaven your dwelling-place, and forgive, do, and give to each according to his ways, whose heart you know (for you, even you only, know the hearts of all the children of men), 40 So that they may fear you all the days that they live in the land which you gave to our fathers.

41 "Moreover, concerning a stranger who is not of your people Israel, but comes out of a far country for your name's sake 42 (For they shall hear of your great name, of your strong hand, and of your out-stretched arm) when he comes and prays toward this house, 43 Then hear in heaven your dwelling-place and do according to all that the stranger calls to you for so that all people of the earth may know your name to fear you, as do your people Israel, and that they may know that this house which I have built is called by your name.

44 "If your people go out to battle against their enemy, wherever you send them, and pray to the LORD toward the city which you have chosen and toward the house that I have built for your name, 45 Then hear in heaven their prayer and their supplication and maintain their cause.

46 "If they sin against you (for there is no man who does not sin), and you are angry with them and deliver them to the enemy so that they carry them away captives to the land of the enemy, far or near, 47 Yet if they repent themselves in the land where they were carried captives and repent and make supplication to you in the land of those who carried them captives, saying, 'We have sinned and have done perversely, we have committed wickedness,' 48 And so return to you with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their enemies, who led them away captive, and pray to you toward their land which you gave to their fathers, the city which you have chosen, and the house which I have built for your name, 49 Then hear their prayer and their supplication in heaven your dwelling-place, maintain their cause, 50 And forgive your people who have sinned against you, and all their transgressions in which they have transgressed against you, and give them compassion before those who carried them captive so that they may have compassion on them 51 (For they are your people and your inheritance which you brought out of Egypt, from the midst of the furnace of iron), 52 So that your eyes may be open to the supplication of your servant and to the supplication of your people Israel to listen to them in all their supplications to you. 53 For you separated them from among all the people of the earth to be your inheritance, as you spoke by the hand of Moses your servant when you brought our fathers out of Egypt, O Lord GOD."

54 And it was so, that when Solomon had made an end of praying all this prayer and supplication to the LORD, he arose from before the altar of the LORD, from kneeling on his knees, with his hands spread up to heaven. 55 And he stood and blessed all the congregation of Israel with a loud voice, saying,

56 "Blessed be the LORD who has given rest to his people Israel, according to all that he promised. There has not failed one word of all his good promise which he promised by the hand of Moses his servant. 57 May the LORD our God be with us, as he was with our fathers. May he not leave us, nor forsake us, 58 So that he may incline our hearts to him to walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments, his statutes, and his judgments which he commanded our fathers. 59 And let these words of mine with which I have made supplication before the LORD be near to the LORD our God day and night so that he may maintain the cause of his servant and the cause of his people Israel at all times, as the matter shall require, 60 So that all the people of the earth may know that the LORD is God and that there is no one else. 61 Let your heart therefore be perfect with the LORD our God to walk in his statutes and to keep his commandments, as at this day."

62 And the king, and all Israel with him, offered sacrifice before the LORD. 63 And Solomon offered a sacrifice of peace-offerings which he offered to the LORD: twenty-two thousand oxen and one hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of the LORD. 64 The same day the king consecrated the middle of the court that was before the house of the LORD, for there he offered burnt-offerings, food-offerings, and the fat of the peace-offerings, because the brazen altar that was before the LORD was too little to receive the burnt-offerings, food-offerings, and the fat of the peace-offerings.

65 And at that time Solomon held a feast, and all Israel with him, a great congregation, from the entrance into Hamath to the river of Egypt, before the LORD our God, seven days and seven days, even fourteen days. 66 On the eighth day he sent the people away, and they blessed the king and went to their tents joyful and glad of heart for all the goodness that the LORD had done for David his servant and for Israel his people.

[#fki009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_God's covenant in a vision with Solomon, 1-9. The mutual presents of Solomon and Hiram, 10-14. In Solomon's works the Gentiles were his tributary servants, the Israelites honorable servants, 15-23. Pharaoh's daughter moves to her house, 24. Solomon's yearly solemn sacrifices, 25. His navy fetches gold from Ophir, 26-28._

1 And it came to pass, when Solomon had finished the building of the house of the LORD, the king's house, and all Solomon's desire which he was pleased to perform, 2 That the LORD appeared to Solomon a second time, as he had appeared to him at Gibeon. 3 And the LORD said to him, "I have heard your prayer and your supplication that you have made before me. I have hallowed this house which you have built to put my name there forever. And my eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually. 4 And if you will walk before me, as David your father walked, in integrity of heart and in uprightness, to do according to all that I have commanded you and keep my statutes and my judgments, 5 Then I will establish the throne of your kingdom upon Israel forever, as I promised to David your father, saying, 'There shall not fail you a man upon the throne of Israel.'

6 "But if you at all turn from following me—you or your children—and will not keep my commandments and my statutes which I have set before you, but go and serve other gods and worship them, 7 Then I will cut off Israel from the land which I have given them, and this house which I have hallowed for my name I will cast out of my sight, and Israel shall be a proverb and a by-word among all people. 8 And at this house which is high, everyone who passes by it shall be astonished and shall hiss. And they shall say, 'Why has the LORD done so to this land and to this house?' 9 And they shall answer, 'Because they forsook the LORD their God who brought forth their fathers from the land of Egypt, and have taken hold upon other gods and have worshiped them and served them, therefore the LORD has brought all this evil upon them.'"

10 And it came to pass at the end of twenty years when Solomon had built the two houses, the house of the LORD, and the king's house 11 (Now Hiram the king of Tyre had furnished Solomon with cedar trees and fir trees and with gold, according to all his desire), that king Solomon gave Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee. 12 And Hiram came out from Tyre to see the cities which Solomon had given him, and they did not please him. 13 And he said, "What cities are these which you have given me, my brother?" And he called them the land of Cabul to this day. 14 And Hiram sent to the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold.

15 And this is the reason of the levy which king Solomon raised: to build the house of the LORD, his own house, Millo, the wall of Jerusalem, Hazor, Megiddo, and Gezer. 16 For Pharaoh king of Egypt had gone up, taken Gezer, burnt it with fire, slain the Canaanites who dwelt in the city, and given it for a present to his daughter, Solomon's wife. 17 And Solomon built Gezer, Beth-horon the nether, 18 Baalath, and Tadmor in the wilderness in the land, 19 And all the cities of store that Solomon had, cities for his chariots, cities for his horsemen, and that which Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion. 20 And all the people who were left of the Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites, who were not of the children of Israel, 21 Their children who were left after them in the land, whom the children of Israel were not able to utterly destroy, upon those Solomon levied a tribute of service to this day. 22 But Solomon did not make slaves of the children of Israel, but they were men of war, his servants, his princes, his captains, rulers of his chariots, and his horsemen.

23 These were the chief of the officers who were over Solomon's work: five hundred and fifty who bore rule over the people who wrought in the work.

24 But Pharaoh's daughter came up from the city of David to her house which Solomon had built for her. Then he built Millo.

25 And three times in a year Solomon offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings upon the altar which he built to the LORD, and he burnt incense upon the altar that was before the LORD. So he finished the house.

26 And king Solomon made a navy of ships in Ezion-geber, which is beside Eloth, on the shore of the Red Sea in the land of Edom. 27 And Hiram sent in the navy his servants, shipmen who had knowledge of the sea, with the servants of Solomon. 28 And they came to Ophir and imported four hundred and twenty talents of gold from there and brought it to king Solomon.

[#fki010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_The queen of Sheba admires the wisdom of Solomon, 1-13. Solomon's gold, 14, 15. His bucklers, 16, 17. The throne of ivory, 18-20. His vessels, 21-23. His presents, 24, 25. His chariots and horse, 26, 27. His tribute, 28, 29._

1 And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of the LORD, she came to prove him with hard questions. 2 And she came to Jerusalem with a very great train, with camels that bore spices, very much gold, and precious stones. And when she had come to Solomon, she spoke with him about all that was in her heart. 3 And Solomon answered all her questions. There was not anything hid from the king which he did not tell her. 4 And when the queen of Sheba had seen all Solomon's wisdom, the house that he had built, 5 The provisions of his table, the sitting of his servants, the attendance of his ministers and their apparel, his cup-bearers, and his ascent by which he went up to the house of the LORD, there was no more spirit in her. 6 And she said to the king, "It was a true report that I heard in my own land of your acts and of your wisdom. 7 Although, I did not believe the words until I came and my eyes had seen it. And behold, the half was not told to me. Your wisdom and prosperity exceed the fame which I heard. 8 Happy are your men. Happy are these your servants who stand continually before you and who hear your wisdom. 9 Blessed be the LORD your God who delighted in you to set you on the throne of Israel. Because the LORD loved Israel forever, therefore he made you king to do judgment and justice." 10 And she gave the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold, a very great quantity of spices, and precious stones. Never again did there come such abundance of spices as these which the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon.

11 And also the navy of Hiram, which brought gold from Ophir, brought in from Ophir a large quantity of almug trees and precious stones. 12 And the king made from the almug trees pillars for the house of the LORD and for the king's house and harps and psalteries for singers. There have not come such almug trees, nor have they been seen to this day.

13 And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire, whatever she asked, besides that which Solomon gave her out of his royal bounty. So she turned and went to her own country—she and her servants.

14 Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold, 15 Besides what he had from the merchants, from the traffic of the spice-merchants, from all the kings of Arabia, and from the governors of the country. 16 And king Solomon made two hundred bucklers of beaten gold. Six hundred shekels of gold went to one buckler. 17 And he made three hundred shields of beaten gold. Three minas of gold went to one shield. And the king put them in the House of the Forest of Lebanon. 18 Moreover, the king made a great throne of ivory and overlaid it with the best gold. 19 The throne had six steps, and the top of the throne was round and behind it. And there were stays on either side on the place of the seat, and two lions stood beside the stays. 20 And twelve lions stood there on one side and on the other upon the six steps. There was nothing like it made in any kingdom. 21 And all king Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold. None were of silver, for it was nothing accounted of in the days of Solomon. 22 For the king had at sea a navy of Tarshish with the navy of Hiram. Once in three years the navy of Tarshish came, bringing gold, silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks.

23 So king Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom. 24 And all the earth sought for Solomon to hear his wisdom which God had put in his heart. 25 And every man brought his present: vessels of silver, vessels of gold, garments, armor, spices, horses, and mules—a rate year by year.

26 And Solomon collected chariots and horsemen. And he had one thousand and four hundred chariots and twelve thousand horsemen, whom he bestowed in the cities for chariots and with the king at Jerusalem. 27 And the king made silver to be in Jerusalem as stones, and cedars he made to be as abundant as the sycamore trees that are in the valley. 28 And Solomon had horses brought from Egypt and from Keveh. The king's merchants received from Keveh at a price. 29 And a chariot came up and went out of Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver, and a horse for one hundred and fifty. And in this manner they exported them to all the kings of the Hittites and to the kings of Syria.

[#fki011%breakable]
=== Chapter 11

[.outline.text-center]
_Solomon's wives and concubines, 1-3. In his old age they draw him to idolatry, 4-8. God threatens him, 9-13. Solomon's adversaries were Hadad, who was entertained in Egypt, 14-22; Rezon, who reigned in Damascus, 23-25; and Jeroboam, to whom Ahijah prophesied, 26-40. Solomon's acts, reign, and death. Rehoboam succeeds him, 41-43._

1 But king Solomon loved many foreign women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Zidonians, and Hittites, 2 Of the nations concerning which the LORD said to the children of Israel, "You shall not go in to them, neither shall they come in to you, for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods." Solomon cleaved to these in love. 3 And he had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines. And his wives turned away his heart. 4 For it came to pass, when Solomon was old, that his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not perfect with the LORD his God, as the heart of David his father was. 5 For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians and after Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites. 6 And Solomon did evil in the sight of the LORD, and did not go fully after the LORD, as David his father did. 7 Then Solomon built a high place for Chemosh, the abomination of Moab, on the hill that is before Jerusalem, and for Molech, the abomination of the children of Ammon. 8 And he did likewise for all his foreign wives who burnt incense and sacrificed to their gods.

9 And the LORD was angry with Solomon because his heart was turned from the LORD God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice 10 And had commanded him concerning this thing that he should not go after other gods. But he did not keep that which the LORD commanded. 11 Therefore, the LORD said to Solomon, "Because this is done by you and you have not kept my covenant and my statutes which I have commanded you, I will surely rend the kingdom from you and give it to your servant. 12 Although, in your days, I will not do it, for David your father's sake, but I will rend it out of the hand of your son. 13 Yet, I will not rend away all the kingdom, but will give one tribe to your son for David my servant's sake and for Jerusalem's sake which I have chosen."

14 And the LORD stirred up an adversary for Solomon: Hadad the Edomite. He was of the king's offspring in Edom. 15 For it came to pass, when David was in Edom, and Joab the captain of the host had gone up to bury the slain, after he had smitten every male in Edom 16 (For six months Joab remained there with all Israel until he had cut off every male in Edom), 17 That Hadad fled—he and some Edomites of his father's servants with him—to go into Egypt, while Hadad was still a little child. 18 And they arose out of Midian and came to Paran. And they took men with them from Paran and they came to Egypt, to Pharaoh king of Egypt, who gave him a house, appointed him food, and gave him land. 19 And Hadad found great favor in the sight of Pharaoh so that he gave him for a wife the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen. 20 And the sister of Tahpenes bore him Genubath his son, whom Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh's house. And Genubath was in Pharaoh's household among the sons of Pharaoh. 21 And when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers and that Joab the captain of the host was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, "Let me depart so that I may go to my own country." 22 Then Pharaoh said to him, "But what have you lacked with me that, behold, you seek to go to your own country?" And he answered, "Nothing. Yet, you must certainly let me go."

23 And God stirred him up another adversary: Rezon the son of Eliadah, who fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah. 24 And he gathered men to him and became captain over a band when David slew them of Zobah. And they went to Damascus, dwelt in it, and reigned in Damascus. 25 And he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon, besides the mischief that Hadad did. And he abhorred Israel and reigned over Syria.

26 And Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephrathite of Zereda, Solomon's servant, whose mother's name was Zeruah, a widow woman, even he raised his hand against the king. 27 And this was the cause why he raised his hand against the king: Solomon built Millo and repaired the breaches of the city of David his father. 28 And the man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valor. And Solomon, seeing that the young man was industrious, he made him ruler over all the charge of the house of Joseph. 29 And it came to pass at that time when Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem, that the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him on the way. And he had clad himself with a new garment, and the two of them were alone in the field. 30 And Ahijah caught the new garment that was on him and rent it in twelve pieces. 31 And he said to Jeroboam, "Take for yourself ten pieces, for thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: 'Behold, I will rend the kingdom from the hand of Solomon and will give ten tribes to you 32 (But he shall have one tribe for my servant David's sake and for Jerusalem's sake, the city which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel), 33 Because they have forsaken me and have worshiped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians, Chemosh the god of the Moabites, and Milcom the god of the children of Ammon, and have not walked in my ways to do that which is right in my eyes and to keep my statutes and my judgments, as David his father did. 34 Yet I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand, but I will make him prince all the days of his life for David my servant's sake, whom I chose because he kept my commandments and my statutes. 35 But I will take the kingdom out of his son's hand and will give it to you, even ten tribes. 36 And to his son I will give one tribe so that David my servant may have a light always before me in Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen for me to put my name there. 37 And I will take you, and you shall reign according to all that your soul desires and shall be king over Israel. 38 And it shall be, if you will listen to all that I command you, walk in my ways, and do right in my sight to keep my statutes and my commandments, as David my servant did, that I will be with you and build you a sure house, as I built for David, and will give Israel to you. 39 And I will afflict the offspring of David for this, but not forever.'" 40 Solomon therefore sought to kill Jeroboam. And Jeroboam arose and fled into Egypt, to Shishak king of Egypt, and was in Egypt until the death of Solomon.

41 And the rest of the acts of Solomon and all that he did and his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the acts of Solomon? 42 And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years. 43 And Solomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.

[#fki012%breakable]
=== Chapter 12

[.outline.text-center]
_The Israelites, assembled at Shechem to crown Rehoboam, by Jeroboam make an appeal of relaxation to him, 1-5. Rehoboam, refusing the old men's counsel, answers them roughly, 6-15. Ten tribes revolt, kill Adoram, and make Rehoboam flee, 16-20. Rehoboam, raising an army, is forbidden by Shemaiah, 21-24. Jeroboam strengthens himself by cities, 25; and by the idolatry of the two calves, 26-33._

1 And Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king. 2 And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was still in Egypt, heard of it (for he had fled from the presence of king Solomon, and Jeroboam dwelt in Egypt), 3 That they sent and called him. And Jeroboam and all the congregation of Israel came and spoke to Rehoboam, saying, 4 "Your father made our yoke grievous. Now therefore, lighten the grievous service of your father and his heavy yoke which he put upon us, and we will serve you." 5 And he said to them, "Depart for three days, then come back to me." And the people departed.

6 And king Rehoboam consulted with the old men who stood before Solomon his father while he still lived and said, "How do you advise that I may answer this people?" 7 And they spoke to him, saying, "If you will be a servant to this people this day and serve them, answer them, and speak good words to them, then they will be your servants forever." 8 But he forsook the counsel of the old men which they had given him and consulted with the young men who had grown up with him, and who stood before him. 9 And he said to them, "What counsel do you give that we may answer this people who have spoken to me, saying, 'Make the yoke which your father put upon us lighter'?" 10 And the young men who had grown up with him spoke to him, saying, "Thus shall you speak to this people who spoke to you, saying, 'Your father made our yoke heavy, but make it lighter for us.' Thus you shall say to them: 'My little finger shall be thicker than my father's loins. 11 And now whereas my father burdened you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke. My father has chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.'"

12 So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king had appointed, saying, "Come to me again the third day." 13 And the king answered the people roughly and forsook the old men's counsel that they gave him, 14 And spoke to them after the counsel of the young men, saying, "My father made your yoke heavy, and I will add to your yoke. My father also chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions." 15 Therefore, the king did not listen to the people, for the cause was from the LORD that he might perform his saying which the LORD spoke by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

16 So when all Israel saw that the king did not listen to them, the people answered the king, saying, "What portion do we have in David? We do not have inheritance in the son of Jesse. To your tents, O Israel. Now see to your own house, David." So Israel departed to their tents.

17 But as for the children of Israel who dwelt in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them. 18 Then king Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was over the tribute. And all Israel stoned him with stones so that he died. Therefore, king Rehoboam made speed to enter his chariot to flee to Jerusalem. 19 So Israel rebelled against the house of David to this day.

20 And it came to pass when all Israel heard that Jeroboam had come back, that they sent and called him to the congregation and made him king over all Israel. There was none who followed the house of David, but the tribe of Judah only.

21 And when Rehoboam had come to Jerusalem, he assembled all the house of Judah with the tribe of Benjamin, one hundred and eighty thousand chosen men who were warriors, to fight against the house of Israel to bring the kingdom back to Rehoboam the son of Solomon. 22 But the word of God came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying, 23 "Speak to Rehoboam the son of Solomon king of Judah, to all the house of Judah and Benjamin, and to the remnant of the people, saying, 24 'Thus says the LORD: "You shall not go up, nor fight against your brothers the children of Israel. Everyone return to his house, for this thing is from me."'" They listened therefore to the word of the LORD and returned to depart, according to the word of the LORD.

25 Then Jeroboam built Shechem on mount Ephraim and dwelt in it, and went out from there and built Penuel. 26 And Jeroboam said in his heart, "Now the kingdom shall return to the house of David. 27 If this people goes up to perform sacrifice in the house of the LORD at Jerusalem, then the heart of this people shall turn back to their lord, even to Rehoboam king of Judah, and they shall kill me and return to Rehoboam king of Judah." 28 Upon this the king took counsel and made two calves of gold, and said to them, "It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem. Behold your gods, O Israel, which brought you out of the land of Egypt." 29 And he set one in Beth-el and the other he placed in Dan. 30 And this thing became a sin, for the people went to worship before the one, even to Dan. 31 And he made a house of high places and made priests of the lowest of the people, who were not of the sons of Levi. 32 And Jeroboam ordained a feast in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, like the feast that is in Judah, and he offered upon the altar. Thus he did in Beth-el, sacrificing to the calves that he had made. And he placed in Beth-el the priests of the high places which he had made. 33 So he offered upon the altar which he had made in Beth-el on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, even in the month which he had devised in his own heart. And he ordained a feast to the children of Israel and he offered upon the altar and burned incense.

[#fki013%breakable]
=== Chapter 13

[.outline.text-center]
_Jeroboam's hand withers, 1-5, and at the prayer of the prophet is restored, 6. The prophet departs from Beth-el, 7-10. An old prophet brings him back, 11-19. He is reproved by God, 20-22, slain by a lion, 23-25, buried by the old prophet, 26-30, who confirms his prophecy, 31, 32. Jeroboam's obstinacy, 33, 34._

1 And behold, there came a man of God out of Judah by the word of the LORD to Beth-el. And Jeroboam stood by the altar to burn incense. 2 And he cried against the altar in the word of the LORD and said, "O altar, altar, thus says the LORD: 'Behold, a child shall be born to the house of David, Josiah by name, and upon you he shall offer the priests of the high places who burn incense upon you, and men's bones shall be burnt upon you.'" 3 And he gave a sign the same day, saying, "This is the sign which the LORD has spoken: 'Behold, the altar shall be rent and the ashes that are upon it shall be poured out.'" 4 And it came to pass when king Jeroboam heard the saying of the man of God who had cried against the altar in Beth-el, that he put forth his hand from the altar, saying, "Lay hold upon him." And his hand, which he put forth against him, dried up so that he could not draw it to him again. 5 The altar also was rent and the ashes poured out from the altar, according to the sign which the man of God had given by the word of the LORD. 6 And the king answered and said to the man of God, "Entreat now the face of the LORD your God and pray for me so that my hand may be restored to me again." And the man of God implored the LORD, and the king's hand was restored to him again and became as it was before. 7 And the king said to the man of God, "Come home with me and refresh yourself, and I will give you a reward." 8 And the man of God said to the king, "If you will give me half of your house, I will not go in with you, neither will I eat bread nor drink water in this place, 9 For thus it was charged me by the word of the LORD, saying, 'Eat no bread, nor drink water, nor turn back by the same way that you came.'" 10 So he went another way and did not return by the way that he came to Beth-el.

11 Now there dwelt an old prophet in Beth-el. And his sons came and told him all the works that the man of God had done that day in Beth-el. The words which he had spoken to the king, they also told them to their father. 12 And their father said to them, "Which way did he go?" For his sons had seen which way the man of God went who came from Judah. 13 And he said to his sons, "Saddle the donkey for me." So they saddled the donkey for him and he rode upon it. 14 And he went after the man of God and found him sitting under an oak. And he said to him, "Are you the man of God who came from Judah?" And he said, "I am." 15 Then he said to him, "Come home with me and eat bread." 16 And he said, "I may not return with you, nor go in with you, neither will I eat bread nor drink water with you in this place, 17 For it was said to me by the word of the LORD, 'You shall eat no bread nor drink water there, nor turn back to go by the way that you came.'" 18 He said to him, "I am also a prophet as you are, and an angel spoke to me by the word of the LORD, saying, 'Bring him back with you into your house so that he may eat bread and drink water.'" But he lied to him. 19 So he went back with him and ate bread in his house and drank water.

20 And it came to pass, as they sat at the table, that the word of the LORD came to the prophet who brought him back. 21 And he cried to the man of God who came from Judah, saying, "Thus says the LORD: 'Because you have disobeyed the mouth of the LORD and have not kept the commandment which the LORD your God commanded you, 22 But have returned and have eaten bread and drank water in the place of which the LORD said to you, "Eat no bread and drink no water," your carcass shall not come to the sepulcher of your fathers.'" 23 And it came to pass, after he had eaten bread and after he had drank, that he saddled the donkey for him, namely, for the prophet whom he had brought back. 24 And when he had gone, a lion met him by the way and slew him. And his carcass was cast in the way, and the donkey stood by it. The lion also stood by the carcass. 25 And behold, men passed by and saw the carcass cast in the way and the lion standing by the carcass. And they came and told it in the city where the old prophet dwelt.

26 And when the prophet who brought him back from the way heard of it, he said, "It is the man of God who was disobedient to the word of the LORD. Therefore, the LORD has delivered him to the lion which has torn him and slain him, according to the word of the LORD which he spoke to him." 27 And he spoke to his sons, saying, "Saddle the donkey for me." And they saddled it for him. 28 And he went and found his carcass cast in the way, and the donkey and the lion standing by the carcass. The lion had not eaten the carcass, nor torn the donkey. 29 And the prophet took up the carcass of the man of God, laid it upon the donkey, and brought it back. And the old prophet came to the city to mourn and bury him. 30 And he laid his carcass in his own grave. And they mourned over him, saying, "Alas, my brother!" 31 And it came to pass, after he had buried him, that he spoke to his sons, saying, "When I am dead, bury me in the sepulcher in which the man of God is buried. Lay my bones beside his bones. 32 For the saying which he cried by the word of the LORD against the altar in Beth-el and against all the houses of the high places which are in the cities of Samaria shall surely come to pass."

33 After this thing Jeroboam did not return from his evil way, but again made from the lowest of the people priests of the high places. Whoever wanted, he consecrated him, and he became one of the priests of the high places. 34 And this thing became sin to the house of Jeroboam, even to cut it off and to destroy it from the face of the earth.

[#fki014%breakable]
=== Chapter 14

[.outline.text-center]
_Abijah falls sick, and Jeroboam disguises his wife and sends her with presents to the prophet Ahijah at Shiloh, 1-4. Ahijah, forewarned by God, denounces God's judgment, 5-16. Abijah dies and is buried, 17, 18. Nadab succeeds Jeroboam, 19, 20. Rehoboam's wicked reign, 21-24. Shishak plunders Jerusalem, 25-28. Abijam succeeds Rehoboam, 29-31._

1 At that time Abijah the son of Jeroboam fell sick. 2 And Jeroboam said to his wife, "Arise, I pray you, disguise yourself so that you may not be known to be the wife of Jeroboam and go to Shiloh. Behold, there is Ahijah the prophet who told me that I should be king over this people. 3 And take with you ten loaves, cracknels, and a cruse of honey, and go to him. He will tell you what shall become of the child."

4 And Jeroboam's wife did so, and arose, went to Shiloh, and came to the house of Ahijah. But Ahijah could not see, for his eyes were set by reason of his age. 5 And the LORD said to Ahijah, "Behold, the wife of Jeroboam comes to ask a thing of you for her son, for he is sick. In this manner you shall speak to her, for it shall be, when she comes in, that she will feign herself to be another woman."

6 And it was so, when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet as she came in at the door, that he said, "Come in, wife of Jeroboam. Why do you feign yourself to be another? For I am sent to you with heavy tidings. 7 Go, tell Jeroboam, 'Thus says the LORD God of Israel: "Because I exalted you from among the people and made you prince over my people Israel 8 And rent the kingdom away from the house of David and gave it to you, and yet you have not been as my servant David, who kept my commandments and who followed me with all his heart to do that only which was right in my eyes, 9 But you have done evil above all who were before you, for you have gone and made yourself other gods and molten images to provoke me to anger, and have cast me behind your back, 10 Therefore, behold, I will bring evil upon the house of Jeroboam: I will cut off from Jeroboam the males, both him who is shut up and him whi is left at large, in Israel, and will take away the remnant of the house of Jeroboam, as a man takes away dung until it is all gone. 11 He who dies belonging to Jeroboam in the city the dogs shall eat, and he who dies in the field the birds of the air shall eat, for the LORD has spoken it."' 12 Therefore, arise, depart to your own house. And when your feet enter into the city, the child shall die. 13 And all Israel shall mourn for him and bury him, for he only belonging to Jeroboam shall come to the grave, because in him there is found some good thing toward the LORD God of Israel in the house of Jeroboam. 14 Moreover, the LORD shall raise himself up a king over Israel who shall cut off the house of Jeroboam that day. But what? Even now.

15 "For the LORD will smite Israel as a reed is shaken in the water, and he will root up Israel out of this good land which he gave to their fathers and scatter them beyond the river because they have made their groves, provoking the LORD to anger. 16 And he will give up Israel because of the sins of Jeroboam who sinned and who made Israel to sin."

17 And Jeroboam's wife arose, departed, and came to Tirzah. And when she came to the threshold of the door, the child died. 18 And they buried him, and all Israel mourned for him, according to the word of the LORD which he spoke by the hand of his servant Ahijah the prophet.

19 And the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he warred and how he reigned, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 20 And the days which Jeroboam reigned were twenty-two years. And he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned in his stead.

21 And Rehoboam the son of Solomon reigned in Judah. Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD chose out of all the tribes of Israel to put his name there. And his mother's name was Naamah, an Ammonitess. 22 And Judah did evil in the sight of the LORD and they provoked him to jealousy with their sins which they had committed above all that their fathers had done. 23 For they also built for themselves high places and images and groves on every high hill and under every green tree. 24 And there were also temple prostitutes in the land. And they did according to all the abominations of the nations which the LORD cast out before the children of Israel.

25 And it came to pass in the fifth year of king Rehoboam, that Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem. 26 And he took away the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king's house. He even took away everything. And he took away all the shields of gold which Solomon had made. 27 And king Rehoboam made in their stead brazen shields and committed them to the hands of the chief of the guard who kept the door of the king's house. 28 And it was so, when the king went into the house of the LORD, that the guard bore them and brought them back into the guard chamber.

29 Now the rest of the acts of Rehoboam and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 30 And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all their days. 31 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And his mother's name was Naamah, an Ammonitess. And Abijam his son reigned in his stead.

[#fki015%breakable]
=== Chapter 15

[.outline.text-center]
_Abijam's wicked reign, 1-6. Asa succeeds him, 7, 8. Asa's good reign, 9-15. The war between Baasha and him causes him to make a league with Ben-hadad, 16-22. Jehoshaphat succeeds Asa, 23, 24. Nadab's wicked reign, 25, 26. Baasha, conspiring against him, executes Ahijah's prophecy, 27-30. Nadab's acts and death, 31, 32. Baasha's wicked reign, 33, 34._

1 Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam the son of Nebat, Abijam reigned over Judah. 2 He reigned three years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom. 3 And he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done before him. And his heart was not perfect with the LORD his God, as the heart of David his father. 4 Nevertheless, for David's sake the LORD his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem to set up his son after him and to establish Jerusalem, 5 Because David did that which was right in the eyes of the LORD and did not turn aside from anything that he commanded him all the days of his life, except only in the matter of Uriah the Hittite. 6 And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life.

7 Now the rest of the acts of Abijam and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? And there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam.

8 And Abijam slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David. And Asa his son reigned in his stead.

9 And in the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Asa reigned over Judah. 10 And he reigned forty-one years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom. 11 And Asa did that which was right in the eyes of the LORD, as did David his father. 12 And he banished the temple prostitutes from the land and removed all the idols that his fathers had made. 13 And also Maachah his mother, he even removed her from being queen because she had made an idol in a grove. And Asa destroyed her idol and burnt it by the brook Kidron. 14 But the high places were not removed. Nevertheless, Asa's heart was perfect with the LORD all his days. 15 And he brought the things which his father had dedicated and the things which he himself had dedicated into the house of the LORD: silver, gold, and vessels.

16 And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days. 17 And Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah and built Ramah so that he might not allow any to go out or come to Asa king of Judah. 18 Then Asa took all the silver and the gold that was left in the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king's house, and delivered them into the hand of his servants. And king Asa sent them to Ben-hadad, the son of Tabrimon, the son of Hezion, king of Syria, who dwelt at Damascus, saying, 19 "There is a league between you and me and between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent to you a present of silver and gold. Come and break your league with Baasha king of Israel so that he may depart from me." 20 So Ben-hadad listened to king Asa and sent the captains of the armies which he had against the cities of Israel and smote Ijon, Dan, Abel-beth-maachah, and all Cinneroth, with all the land of Naphtali. 21 And it came to pass, when Baasha heard of it, that he stopped building Ramah and dwelt in Tirzah. 22 Then king Asa made a proclamation throughout all Judah. No one was exempted. And they took away the stones of Ramah and its timber, with which Baasha had built it, and king Asa built with them Geba of Benjamin and Mizpah.

23 The rest of all the acts of Asa, all his might, all that he did, and the cities which he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? Nevertheless, in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet. 24 And Asa slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father. And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead.

25 And Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned over Israel two years. 26 And he did evil in the sight of the LORD and walked in the way of his father and in his sin with which he made Israel to sin. 27 And Baasha the son of Ahijah from the house of Issachar conspired against him. And Baasha smote him at Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines, for Nadab and all Israel laid siege to Gibbethon.

28 Even in the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha slayed him and reigned in his stead. 29 And it came to pass, when he reigned, that he smote all the house of Jeroboam. He did not leave to Jeroboam any who breathed until he had destroyed him, according to the saying of the LORD which he spoke by his servant Ahijah the Shilonite, 30 Because of the sins of Jeroboam which he sinned and with which he made Israel to sin, and because of his provocation with which he provoked the LORD God of Israel to anger.

31 Now the rest of the acts of Nadab and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

32 And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.

33 In the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha the son of Ahijah began to reign over all Israel in Tirzah twenty-four years. 34 And he did evil in the sight of the LORD and walked in the way of Jeroboam and in his sin with which he made Israel to sin.

[#fki016%breakable]
=== Chapter 16

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehu's prophecy against Baasha, 1-4. Elah succeeds him, 5-7. Zimri, conspiring against Elah, succeeds him, 8-10. Zimri executes Jehu's prophecy, 11-14. Omri, made king by the soldiers, forces Zimri desperately to burn himself, 15-20. The kingdom being divided, Omri prevails against Tibni, 21, 22. Omri builds Samaria, 23, 24. His wicked reign, 25, 26. Ahab succeeds him, 27, 28. Ahab's most wicked reign, 29-33. Joshua's curse upon Hiel the builder of Jericho, 34._

1 Then the word of the LORD came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying, 2 "Because I exalted you from the dust and made you prince over my people Israel, and you have walked in the way of Jeroboam and have made my people Israel to sin to provoke me to anger with their sins, 3 Behold, I will take away the posterity of Baasha and the posterity of his house and will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat. 4 Anyone belonging to Baasha who dies in the city the dogs shall eat, and anyone belonging to him who dies in the fields the birds of the air shall eat."

5 Now the rest of the acts of Baasha and what he did and his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

6 So Baasha slept with his fathers and was buried in Tirzah. And Elah his son reigned in his stead. 7 And also by the hand of the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani the word of the LORD came against Baasha and against his house, even for all the evil that he did in the sight of the LORD in provoking him to anger with the work of his hands, in being like the house of Jeroboam, and because he killed him.

8 In the twenty-sixth year of Asa king of Judah, Elah the son of Baasha began to reign over Israel in Tirzah two years. 9 And his servant Zimri, captain of half his chariots, conspired against him as he was in Tirzah drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, steward of his house in Tirzah. 10 And Zimri went in and smote him and killed him in the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned in his stead. 11 And it came to pass, when he began to reign, as soon as he sat on his throne, that he slew all the house of Baasha. He left him not one male, neither of his kinsman, nor of his friends.

12 Thus Zimri destroyed all the house of Baasha, according to the word of the LORD which he spoke against Baasha by Jehu the prophet, 13 For all the sins of Baasha and the sins of Elah his son by which they sinned and by which they made Israel to sin, in provoking the LORD God of Israel to anger with their vanities. 14 Now the rest of the acts of Elah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

15 In the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, Zimri reigned seven days in Tirzah. And the people were encamped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines. 16 And the people who were encamped heard it said, "Zimri has conspired and has also slain the king." Therefore, all Israel made Omri, the captain of the host, king over Israel that day in the camp. 17 And Omri and all Israel with him went up from Gibbethon and besieged Tirzah. 18 And it came to pass, when Zimri saw that the city was taken, that he went into the palace of the king's house and burnt the king's house over him with fire and died, 19 Because of his sins which he sinned in doing evil in the sight of the LORD, in walking in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin which he did to make Israel to sin. 20 Now the rest of the acts of Zimri and his treason that he wrought, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

21 Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts: half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath to make him king, and half followed Omri. 22 But the people who followed Omri prevailed against the people who followed Tibni the son of Ginath. So Tibni died, and Omri reigned. 23 In the thirty-first year of Asa king of Judah, Omri began to reign over Israel twelve years. He reigned six years in Tirzah. 24 And he bought the hill of Samaria from Shemer for two talents of silver. He built on the hill and called the name of the city which he built Samaria, after the name of Shemer, owner of the hill.

25 But Omri wrought evil in the eyes of the LORD and did worse than all who were before him. 26 For he walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat and in his sin with which he made Israel to sin to provoke the LORD God of Israel to anger with their vanities. 27 Now the rest of the acts of Omri which he did and his might that he showed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 28 So Omri slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria. And Ahab his son reigned in his stead.

29 And in the thirty-eighth year of Asa king of Judah, Ahab the son of Omri began to reign over Israel. And Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty-two years. 30 And Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD above all who were before him.

31 And it came to pass, as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he took for a wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Zidonians, and went and served Baal and worshiped him. 32 And he erected an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he had built in Samaria. 33 And Ahab made a grove. And Ahab did more to provoke the LORD God of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel who were before him. 34 In his days Hiel the Beth-elite built Jericho. He laid its foundation with the loss of Abiram his first-born and set up its gates with the loss of his youngest son Segub, according to the word of the LORD which he spoke by Joshua the son of Nun.

[#fki017%breakable]
=== Chapter 17

[.outline.text-center]
_Elijah, having prophesied against Ahab, is sent to Cherith where the ravens feed him, 1-7. He is sent to the widow of Zarephath, 8-16. He raises the widow's son, 17-23. The woman believes him, 24._

1 And Elijah the Tishbite who was of the inhabitants of Gilead said to Ahab, "As the LORD God of Israel lives, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word." 2 And the word of the LORD came to him, saying, 3 "Depart from here, turn eastward, and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, which is before the Jordan. 4 And it shall be, that you shall drink from the brook. And I have commanded the ravens to feed you there." 5 So he went and did according to the word of the LORD. For he went and dwelt by the brook Cherith, which is before the Jordan. 6 And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning and bread and flesh in the evening, and he drank from the brook. 7 And it came to pass after a while, that the brook dried up because there had been no rain in the land.

8 And the word of the LORD came to him, saying, 9 "Arise, go to Zarephath, which belongs to Zidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain you." 10 So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman was there gathering sticks. And he called to her and said, "Bring me, I pray you, a little water in a vessel that I may drink." 11 And as she was going to bring it, he called to her and said, "Bring me, I pray you, a morsel of bread in your hand." 12 And she said, "As the LORD your God lives, I do not have a cake, but a handful of meal in a barrel and a little oil in a cruse. And behold, I am gathering two sticks so that I may go in and dress it for me and my son and that we may eat it and die." 13 And Elijah said to her, "Do not fear. Go and do as you have said. But make me a little cake of it first and bring it to me, and afterward make some for yourself and for your son. 14 For thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'The barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruse of oil fail, until the day that the LORD sends rain upon the earth.'" 15 And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah. And she and he and her house ate many days. 16 And the barrel of meal did not waste, neither did the cruse of oil fail, according to the word of the LORD which he spoke by Elijah.

17 And it came to pass after these things that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick. And his sickness was so severe that there was no breath left in him. 18 And she said to Elijah, "What have I to do with you, O man of God? Have you come to me to call my sin to remembrance and to slay my son?" 19 And he said to her, "Give me your son." And he took him out of her bosom, carried him up into a loft where he stayed, and laid him upon his own bed. 20 And he cried to the LORD and said, "O LORD my God, have you also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn by slaying her son?" 21 And he stretched himself upon the child three times and cried to the LORD, and said, "O LORD my God, I pray you, let this child's soul come into him again." 22 And the LORD heard the voice of Elijah. And the soul of the child came into him again and he revived. 23 And Elijah took the child, brought him down from the chamber into the house, and delivered him to his mother. And Elijah said, "Behold, your son lives." 24 And the woman said to Elijah, "Now by this I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of the LORD in your mouth is truth."

[#fki018%breakable]
=== Chapter 18

[.outline.text-center]
_In the extremity of famine, Elijah, sent to Ahab, meets good Obadiah, 1-8. Obadiah brings Ahab to Elijah 9-16. Elijah, reproving Ahab by fire from heaven, convinces Baal's prophets, 17-40. Elijah, by prayer obtaining rain, follows Ahab to Jezreel, 41-46._

1 And it came to pass after many days, that the word of the LORD came to Elijah in the third year, saying, "Go, show yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain upon the earth." 2 And Elijah went to show himself to Ahab. And there was a grievous famine in Samaria. 3 And Ahab called Obadiah who was the governor of his house. (Now Obadiah feared the LORD greatly. 4 For it was so, when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the LORD, that Obadiah took one hundred prophets and hid them by fifties in a cave and fed them with bread and water.) 5 And Ahab said to Obadiah, "Go into the land to all fountains of water and to all brooks. It may be that we may find grass to save the horses and mules alive so that we do not lose all the beasts." 6 So they divided the land between them to pass throughout it. Ahab went one way by himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself.

7 And as Obadiah was on the way, behold, Elijah met him. And he knew him and fell on his face and said, "Is it you, my lord Elijah?" 8 And he answered him, "I am. Go, tell your lord, 'Behold, Elijah is here.'" 9 And he said, "What have I sinned that you would deliver your servant into the hand of Ahab to slay me? 10 As the LORD your God lives, there is no nation nor kingdom where my lord has not sent to seek you. And when they said, 'He is not there,' he made that kingdom and nation swear that they did not find you. 11 And now you say, 'Go, tell your lord, "Behold, Elijah is here."' 12 And it will come to pass, as soon as I have gone from you, that the Spirit of the LORD will carry you where I do not know. And so when I come and tell Ahab, and he cannot find you, he will slay me. But I, your servant, fear the LORD from my youth. 13 Was it not told to my lord what I did when Jezebel slew the prophets of the LORD, how I hid one hundred men of the LORD'S prophets by fifties in a cave and fed them with bread and water? 14 And now you say, 'Go, tell your lord, "Behold, Elijah is here,"' and he will slay me." 15 And Elijah said, "As the LORD of hosts lives, before whom I stand, I will surely show myself to him today." 16 So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him. And Ahab went to meet Elijah.

17 And it came to pass, when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said to him, "Are you he who troubles Israel?" 18 And he answered, "I have not troubled Israel, but you have, along with your father's house, in that you have forsaken the commandments of the LORD and have followed Baalim. 19 Now therefore, send and gather to me all Israel at mount Carmel, along with the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal and the four hundred prophets of the groves who eat at Jezebel's table."

20 So Ahab sent to all the children of Israel and gathered the prophets at mount Carmel. 21 And Elijah came to all the people and said, "How long do you hesitate between two opinions? If the LORD is God, follow him, but if Baal, then follow him." And the people did not answer him a word. 22 Then Elijah said to the people, "I, even I only, remain a prophet of the LORD, but Baal's prophet's are four hundred and fifty men. 23 Let them therefore give us two bulls, and let them choose one bull for themselves, cut it in pieces, lay it on wood, and put no fire under it. And I will dress the other bull, lay it on wood, and put no fire under it. 24 And you call on the name of your gods, and I will call on the name of the LORD. And the God who answers by fire, let him be God." And all the people answered and said, "It is well spoken."

25 And Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, "Choose one bull for yourselves and dress it first, for you are many. And call on the name of your gods, but put no fire under it." 26 And they took the bull which was given to them and they dressed it and called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon, saying, "O Baal, hear us." But there was no voice, nor any who answered. And they leaped upon the altar which was made. 27 And it came to pass at noon, that Elijah mocked them and said, "Cry aloud, for he is a god! Either he is talking, he is pursuing, he is on a journey, or perhaps he sleeps and must be awakened." 28 And they cried aloud and cut themselves after their manner with knives and lancets until the blood gushed out upon them. 29 And it came to pass, when mid-day was past and they prophesied until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that there was neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any who regarded.

30 And Elijah said to all the people, "Come near to me." And all the people came near to him. And he repaired the altar of the LORD that was broken down. 31 And Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, to whom the word of the LORD came, saying, "Israel shall be your name." 32 And with the stones he built an altar in the name of the LORD. And he made a trench around the altar, as great as would contain two measures of seed. 33 And he put the wood in order, cut the bull in pieces, and laid him on the wood and said, "Fill four barrels with water and pour it on the burnt-sacrifice and on the wood." 34 And he said, "Do it a second time." And they did it a second time. And he said, "Do it a third time." And they did it a third time. 35 And the water ran around the altar. And he also filled the trench with water.

36 And it came to pass at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that Elijah the prophet came near and said, "LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that you are God in Israel and that I am your servant, and that I have done all these things at your word. 37 Hear me, O LORD, hear me so that this people may know that you are the LORD God and that you have turned their heart back again." 38 Then the fire of the LORD fell and consumed the burnt-sacrifice, the wood, the stones, and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench. 39 And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces. And they said, "The LORD, he is the God. The LORD, he is the God." 40 And Elijah said to them, "Take the prophets of Baal. Let not one of them escape." And they took them. And Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon and slew them there.

41 And Elijah said to Ahab, "Go up, eat and drink, for there is a sound of abundance of rain." 42 So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. And Elijah went up to the top of Carmel, and he cast himself down upon the earth and put his face between his knees, 43 And said to his servant, "Go up now, look toward the sea." And he went up and looked and said, "There is nothing." And he said, "Go back seven times." 44 And it came to pass at the seventh time, that he said, "Behold, there arises a little cloud out of the sea about the size of a man's palm." And he said, "Go up, say to Ahab, 'Prepare your chariot and go down so that the rain may not hinder you.'" 45 And it came to pass in a little while, that the heaven was black with clouds and wind and there was a great rain. And Ahab rode and went to Jezreel. 46 And the hand of the LORD was on Elijah. And he girded his loins and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel.

[#fki019%breakable]
=== Chapter 19

[.outline.text-center]
_Elijah, threatened by Jezebel, flees to Beer-sheba, 1-3. In the wilderness, being weary of his life, he is comforted by an angel, 4-8. At Horeb God appears to him, sending him to anoint Hazael, Jehu, and Elisha, 9-18. Elisha, taking leave of his friends, follows Elijah, 19-21._

1 And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done and how he had slain all the prophets with the sword. 2 Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, "So let the gods do to me and more also, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time." 3 And when he saw that, he arose and went for his life and came to Beer-sheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant there. 4 But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a juniper-tree. And he requested for himself that he might die and said, "It is enough. Now, O LORD, take away my life, for I am not better than my fathers." 5 And as he lay and slept under a juniper-tree, behold, then an angel touched him and said to him, "Arise and eat." 6 And he looked, and behold, there was a cake baked on the coals and a cruse of water at his head. And he ate and drank and laid himself down again. 7 And the angel of the LORD came back the second time and touched him and said, "Arise and eat because the journey is too great for you." 8 And he arose and ate and drank and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights to Horeb, the mountain of God.

9 And he came to a cave there and lodged there. And behold, the word of the LORD came to him, and he said to him, "What are you doing here, Elijah?" [[fki019-010]]10 And he said, "I have been very jealous for the LORD God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant, thrown down your altars, and slain your prophets with the sword. And I, only I, am left. And they seek my life to take it away."

11 And he said, "Go forth and stand upon the mountain before the LORD." And behold, the LORD passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains and broke in pieces the rocks before the LORD, but the LORD was not in the wind. And after the wind an earthquake, but the LORD was not in the earthquake. 12 And after the earthquake a fire, but the LORD was not in the fire. And after the fire a still small voice. 13 And it was so, when Elijah heard it, that he wrapped his face in his mantle, went out, and stood in the entrance of the cave. And behold, there came a voice to him and said, "What are you doing here, Elijah?" 14 And he said, "I have been very jealous for the LORD God of hosts because the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant, thrown down your altars, and slain your prophets with the sword. And I, only I, am left. And they seek my life to take it away."

15 And the LORD said to him, "Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus. And when you come, anoint Hazael to be king over Syria. 16 And Jehu the son of Nimshi you shall anoint to be king over Israel. And Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah you shall anoint to be prophet in your stead. 17 And it shall come to pass, that he who escapes the sword of Hazael, Jehu shall slay. And he who escapes from the sword of Jehu, Elisha shall slay. [[fki019-018]]18 Yet I have left for myself seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth which has not kissed him."

19 So he departed from there and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, who was plowing with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he with the twelfth. And Elijah passed by him and cast his mantle upon him. 20 And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, "Let me, I pray you, kiss my father and my mother and then I will follow you." And he said to him, "Go back again. For what have I done to you?" 21 And he returned from following him, took a yoke of oxen, slew them, boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen, and gave to the people, and they ate. Then he arose, went after Elijah, and ministered to him.

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.10]*: Quoted in xref:#rom011-003[Romans 11:3]. *[v.18]*: Quoted in xref:#rom011-004[Romans 11:4].

[#fki020%breakable]
=== Chapter 20

[.outline.text-center]
_Ben-hadad, not content with Ahab's homage, besieges Samaria, 1-12. By the direction of a prophet, the Syrians are slain, 13-21. As the prophet forewarned Ahab, the Syrians, trusting in the valleys, come against him in Aphek, 22-27. By the word of the prophet and God's judgment, the Syrians are smitten again, 28-30. The Syrians submit themselves, and Ahab sends Ben-hadad away with a covenant, 31-34. The prophet, under the parable of a prisoner and making Ahab judge himself, denounces God's judgment against him, 35-43._

1 And Ben-hadad the king of Syria collected all his army. And there were thirty-two kings with him and horses and chariots. And he went up and besieged Samaria and warred against it. 2 And he sent messengers to Ahab king of Israel into the city and said to him, "Thus says Ben-hadad: 3 'Your silver and gold are mine, and also your wives and your children, even the best, are mine.'" 4 And the king of Israel answered and said, "My lord, O king, according to your saying, I and all that I have are yours." 5 And the messengers came again and said, "Thus speaks Ben-hadad, saying, 'Although I have sent to you, saying, "You shall deliver to me your silver, your gold, your wives, and your children," 6 Yet I will send my servants to you tomorrow about this time, and they shall search your house and the houses of your servants. And it shall be, that whatever is pleasant in your eyes, they shall take it in their hand and carry it away.'"

7 Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land and said, "Mark, I pray you, and see how this man seeks mischief, for he sent to me for my wives, for my children, for my silver, and for my gold, and I did not deny him." 8 And all the elders and all the people said to him, "Do not listen to him, nor consent." 9 Therefore, he said to the messengers of Ben-hadad, "Tell my lord the king, 'All that you sent for to your servant at the first, I will do, but this thing I may not do.'" And the messengers departed and brought him word again. 10 And Ben-hadad sent to him and said, "May the gods do so to me and more also, if the dust of Samaria shall suffice for handfuls for all the people who follow me." 11 And the king of Israel answered and said, "Tell him, 'Do not let him who girds on his harness boast himself as he who takes it off.'" 12 And it came to pass, when Ben-hadad heard this message as he was drinking—he and the kings in the pavilions—that he said to his servants, "Set yourselves in array." And they set themselves in array against the city.

13 And behold, a prophet came to Ahab king of Israel, saying, "Thus says the LORD: 'Have you seen all this great multitude? Behold, I will deliver it into your hand this day. And you shall know that I am the LORD.'" 14 And Ahab said, "By whom?" And he said, "Thus says the LORD: 'Even by the young men of the princes of the provinces.'" Then he said, "Who shall order the battle?" And he answered, "You." 15 Then he numbered the young men of the princes of the provinces, and they were two hundred and thirty two. And after them he numbered all the people, even all the children of Israel, being seven thousand.

16 And they went out at noon. But Ben-hadad was drinking himself drunk in the pavilions—he and the kings, the thirty-two kings who helped him. 17 And the young men of the princes of the provinces went out first. And Ben-hadad sent out, and they told him, saying, "There are men coming out of Samaria." 18 And he said, "If they have come out for peace, take them alive, or if they have come out for war, take them alive."

19 So these young men of the princes of the provinces came out of the city, with the army which followed them. 20 And they each slew his man. And the Syrians fled, and Israel pursued them, but Ben-hadad the king of Syria escaped on a horse with the horsemen. 21 And the king of Israel went out and smote the horses and chariots and slew the Syrians with a great slaughter.

22 And the prophet came to the king of Israel and said to him, "Go, strengthen yourself, and mark and see what you do, for at the return of the year the king of Syria will come up against you."

23 And the servants of the king of Syria said to him, "Their gods are gods of the hills; therefore, they were stronger than we were. But let us fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they are. 24 And do this thing: take the kings away, every man out of his place, and put captains in their stead, 25 And number an army, like the army that you have lost, horse for horse and chariot for chariot. And we will fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they are." And he listened to their voice and did so.

26 And it came to pass at the return of the year, that Ben-hadad numbered the Syrians and went up to Aphek to fight against Israel. 27 And the children of Israel were numbered and were all present and went against them. And the children of Israel encamped before them like two little flocks of kids, but the Syrians filled the country. 28 And there came a man of God and spoke to the king of Israel and said, "Thus says the LORD: 'Because the Syrians have said, "The LORD is God of the hills, but he is not God of the valleys," therefore I will deliver all this great multitude into your hand, and you shall know that I am the LORD.'" 29 And they encamped one over against the other seven days. And so it was, that in the seventh day the battle was joined. And the children of Israel slew one hundred thousand footmen of the Syrians in one day. 30 But the rest fled to Aphek, into the city, and there a wall fell upon twenty-seven thousand of the men who were left. And Ben-hadad fled and came into the city, into an inner chamber.

31 And his servants said to him, "Behold now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings. Let us, I pray you, put sackcloth on our loins and ropes upon our heads and go out to the king of Israel. It may be that he will save your life." 32 So they girded sackcloth on their loins, put ropes on their heads, and came to the king of Israel, and said, "Your servant Ben-hadad says, 'I pray you, let me live.'" And he said, "Is he still alive? He is my brother." 33 Now the men diligently observed whether anything would come from him, and hastily caught it, and they said, "Your brother Ben-hadad." Then he said, "Go, bring him." Then Ben-hadad came forth to him, and he caused him to come up into the chariot. 34 And Ben-hadad said to him, "The cities which my father took from your father I will restore, and you shall make streets for yourself in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria." Then Ahab said, "I will send you away with this covenant." So he made a covenant with him and sent him away.

35 And a certain man of the sons of the prophets said to his neighbor in the word of the LORD, "Smite me, I pray you." And the man refused to smite him. 36 Then he said to him, "Because you have not obeyed the voice of the LORD, behold, as soon as you have departed from me, a lion will slay you." And as soon as he had departed from him, a lion found him and slew him. 37 Then he found another man and said, "Smite me, I pray you." And the man smote him so that in smiting he wounded him. 38 So the prophet departed and waited for the king by the way and disguised himself with ashes upon his face. 39 And as the king passed by, he cried to the king, and said, "Your servant went out into the midst of the battle, and behold, a man turned aside and brought a man to me and said, 'Keep this man. If by any means he is missing, then your life shall be for his life, or else you shall pay a talent of silver.' 40 And as your servant was busy here and there, he was gone." And the king of Israel said to him, "Thus your judgment shall be. You have decided it yourself." 41 And he hastened and took the ashes away from his face, and the king of Israel discerned him that he was of the prophets. 42 And he said to him, "Thus says the LORD: 'Because you have let go out of your hand a man whom I appointed to utter destruction, therefore your life shall go for his life and your people for his people.'" 43 And the king of Israel went to his house heavy and displeased and came to Samaria.

[#fki021%breakable]
=== Chapter 21

[.outline.text-center]
_Ahab being denied Naboth's vineyard, is grieved, 1-4. Jezebel writes letters against Naboth, and he is condemned for blasphemy, 5-14. Ahab takes possession of the vineyard, 15, 16. Elijah denounces judgments against Ahab and Jezebel, 17-24. Wicked Ahab repenting, God defers the judgment, 25-29._

1 And it came to pass after these things, that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard which was in Jezreel, next to the palace of Ahab king of Samaria. 2 And Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, "Give me your vineyard so that I may have it for a garden of herbs, for it is near to my house. For it, I will give you a better vineyard in its place, or if it seems good to you, I will give you its worth in money." 3 And Naboth said to Ahab, "The LORD forbid me that I should give the inheritance of my fathers to you." 4 And Ahab came into his house heavy and displeased because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him, for he had said, "I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers." And he laid himself down upon his bed and turned away his face and would eat no bread.

5 But Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, "Why is your spirit so sad that you eat no bread?" 6 And he said to her, "Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite and said to him, 'Give me your vineyard for money, or else, if it pleases you, I will give you another vineyard for it.' And he answered, 'I will not give you my vineyard.'" 7 And Jezebel his wife said to him, "Do you now govern the kingdom of Israel? Arise, eat bread, and let your heart be merry. I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite."

8 So she wrote letters in Ahab's name, sealed them with his seal, and sent the letters to the elders and to the nobles who were in his city, dwelling with Naboth. 9 And she wrote in the letters, saying, "Proclaim a fast and set Naboth on high among the people. 10 And set two men before him, sons of Belial, to bear witness against him, saying, 'You blasphemed God and the king.' And then carry him out and stone him so that he may die."

11 And the men of his city, even the elders and the nobles who were the inhabitants in his city, did as Jezebel had sent to them and as it was written in the letters which she had sent to them. 12 They proclaimed a fast and set Naboth on high among the people. 13 And two men came in, children of Belial, and sat before him. And the men of Belial witnessed against him, even against Naboth, in the presence of the people, saying, "Naboth blasphemed God and the king." Then they carried him forth out of the city and stoned him with stones so that he died. 14 Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, "Naboth has been stoned and is dead."

15 And it came to pass, when Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, "Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite which he refused to give you for money, for Naboth is not alive, but dead." 16 And it came to pass, when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that Ahab arose to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite to take possession of it.

17 And the word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, 18 "Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel who is in Samaria. Behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth where he has gone down to possess it. 19 And you shall speak to him, saying, 'Thus says the LORD: "Have you killed and also taken possession?"' And you shall speak to him, saying, 'Thus says the LORD: "In the place where dogs licked the blood of Naboth, dogs shall lick your blood, even yours."'"

20 And Ahab said to Elijah, "Have you found me, O my enemy?" And he answered, "I have found you because you have sold yourself to work evil in the sight of the LORD. 21 Behold, I will bring evil upon you. I will take away your posterity and will cut off from Ahab the males and him who is shut up and left in Israel. 22 I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah because of the provocation with which you have provoked me to anger and made Israel to sin. 23 And the LORD also spoke of Jezebel, saying, 'The dogs shall eat Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel.' 24 He who dies of Ahab in the city the dogs shall eat, and he who dies in the field the birds of the air shall eat."

25 But there was no one like Ahab, who sold himself to work wickedness in the sight of the LORD, whom Jezebel his wife instigated. 26 And he did very abominably in following idols, according to all things that the Amorites did, whom the LORD cast out before the children of Israel.

27 And it came to pass, when Ahab heard those words, that he rent his clothes, put sackcloth upon his flesh, fasted, and lay in sackcloth, and went softly. 28 And the word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, 29 "Do you see how Ahab humbles himself before me? Because he humbles himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his days. But in his son's days I will bring the evil upon his house."

[#fki022%breakable]
=== Chapter 22

[.outline.text-center]
_Ahab, seduced by false prophets, according to the word of Micaiah, is slain at Ramoth-gilead, 1-36. The dogs lick up his blood, and Ahaziah succeeds him, 37-40. Jehoshaphat's good reign, 41-44. His acts, 45. Jehoram succeeds him, 46-50. Ahaziah's evil reign, 51-53._

1 And they continued three years without war between Syria and Israel. 2 And it came to pass in the third year, that Jehoshaphat the king of Judah came down to the king of Israel. 3 And the king of Israel said to his servants, "Do you know that Ramoth in Gilead is ours, and we are still and do not take it out of the hand of the king of Syria?" 4 And he said to Jehoshaphat, "Will you go with me to battle at Ramoth-gilead?" And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, "I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses."

5 And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, "Inquire, I pray you, at the word of the LORD today." 6 Then the king of Israel assembled the prophets, about four hundred men, and said to them, "Shall I go against Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear?" And they said, "Go up, for the Lord will deliver it into the hand of the king." 7 And Jehoshaphat said, "Is there not here a prophet of the LORD that we may inquire of him?" 8 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "There is still one man, Micaiah the son of Imlah, by whom we may inquire of the LORD, but I hate him, for he does not prophesy good concerning me, but evil." And Jehoshaphat said, "Do not let the king say so." 9 Then the king of Israel called an officer and said, "Hasten here Micaiah the son of Imlah." 10 And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah sat each on his throne, having put on their robes, in a void place in the entrance of the gate of Samaria. And all the prophets prophesied before them. 11 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron. And he said, "Thus says the LORD: 'With these you shall push the Syrians until you have consumed them.'" 12 And all the prophets similarly prophesied, saying, "Go up to Ramoth-gilead and prosper, for the LORD will deliver it into the king's hand."

13 And the messenger who went to call Micaiah, spoke to him, saying, "Behold now, the words of the prophets declare good to the king with one mouth. Let your word, I pray you, be like the word of one of them and speak that which is good." 14 And Micaiah said, "As the LORD lives, what the LORD says to me, that I will speak."

15 So he came to the king. And the king said to him, "Micaiah, shall we go against Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall we forbear?" And he answered him, "Go and prosper, for the LORD will deliver it into the hand of the king." 16 And the king said to him, "How many times shall I adjure you that you tell me nothing but that which is true in the name of the LORD?"

17 And he said, "I saw all Israel scattered upon the hills, as sheep that do not have a shepherd. And the LORD said, 'These have no master. Let them each return to his house in peace.'"

18 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "Did I not tell you that he would prophesy no good concerning me, but evil?"

19 And he said, "Hear therefore the word of the LORD. I saw the LORD sitting on his throne, and all the host of heaven standing by him on his right hand and on his left. 20 And the LORD said, 'Who shall persuade Ahab that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead?' And one said in this manner and another said in that manner. 21 And there came forth a spirit and stood before the LORD and said, 'I will persuade him.' 22 And the LORD said to him, 'With what?' And he said, 'I will go forth and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.' And he said, 'You shall persuade him and prevail also. Go forth and do so.' 23 Now therefore, behold, the LORD has put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these prophets of yours, and the LORD has spoken evil concerning you."

24 But Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah went near and smote Micaiah on the cheek and said, "Which way did the Spirit of the LORD go from me to speak to you?" 25 And Micaiah said, "Behold, you shall see in that day when you go into an inner chamber to hide yourself." 26 And the king of Israel said, "Take Micaiah and carry him back to Amon the governor of the city and to Joash the king's son, 27 And say, 'Thus says the king: "Put this man in the prison and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction until I come in peace."'" 28 And Micaiah said, "If you return at all in peace, the LORD has not spoken by me." And he said, "Listen, O people, every one of you."

29 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead. 30 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "I will disguise myself and enter into the battle, but you put on your robes." And the king of Israel disguised himself and went into the battle. 31 But the king of Syria commanded his thirty-two captains who had rule over his chariots, saying, "Fight neither with small nor great, but only with the king of Israel." 32 And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, "Surely it is the king of Israel." And they turned aside to fight against him. And Jehoshaphat cried out. 33 And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots perceived that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him.

34 And a certain man drew a bow at random and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the harness. Therefore, he said to the driver of his chariot, "Turn your hand and carry me out of the host, for I am wounded." 35 And the battle increased that day. And the king was stayed up in his chariot against the Syrians and died at evening. And the blood ran out of the wound into the midst of the chariot. 36 And there went a proclamation throughout the host at about the setting of the sun, saying, "Every man to his city and every man to his own country."

37 So the king died and was brought to Samaria, and they buried the king in Samaria. 38 And someone washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked up his blood, and they washed his armor, according to the word of the LORD which he spoke. 39 Now the rest of the acts of Ahab and all that he did, the ivory house which he made, and all the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 40 So Ahab slept with his fathers, and Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead.

41 And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel. 42 Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Azubah, the daughter of Shilhi. 43 And he walked in all the way of Asa his father. He did not turn aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of the LORD. Nevertheless, the high places were not taken away, and the people still offered and burnt incense in the high places. 44 And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel.

45 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat and his might that he showed and how he warred, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 46 And the remnant of the temple prostitutes, which remained in the days of his father Asa, he removed from the land.

47 There was then no king in Edom, for a deputy was king. 48 Jehoshaphat made ships of Tarshish to go to Ophir for gold, but they did not go, for the ships were broken at Ezion-geber. 49 Then Ahaziah the son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, "Let my servants go with your servants in the ships." But Jehoshaphat would not. 50 And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father. And Jehoram his son reigned in his stead.

51 Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned two years over Israel. 52 And he did evil in the sight of the LORD and walked in the way of his father, in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. 53 For he served Baal and worshiped him and provoked to anger the LORD God of Israel, according to all that his father had done.

[.text-center]
_[Tanach reading: go to xref:#second-kings[Second Kings]]_
