////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#first-samuel]
== The First Book of Samuel

*1st Samuel | Βασιλειῶν Α' | שמואל א*

[#fsa001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_Elkanah, a Levite, having two wives, worships yearly at Shiloh, 1-3. He cherishes Hannah, though barren and provoked by Peninnah, 4-8. Hannah in grief prays for a child, 9-11. Eli at first rebukes her, but afterward blesses her, 12-18. Hannah, having given birth to Samuel, stays at home until he is weaned, 19-23. She presents him to the Lord according to her vow, 24-28._

1 Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim, of mount Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephrathite. 2 And he had two wives: the name of one was Hannah and the name of the other Peninnah. And Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.

3 And this man went up from his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice to the LORD of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, the priests of the LORD, were there. 4 And when the time was that Elkanah offered, he gave portions to Peninnah his wife and to all her sons and her daughters. 5 But to Hannah he gave a worthy portion, for he loved Hannah, but the LORD had rendered her barren. 6 And her adversary also provoked her greatly to make her fret, because the LORD had made her barren. 7 And so it happened year by year. When she went up to the house of the LORD, Peninnah provoked her; therefore, she wept and did not eat. 8 Then Elkanah her husband said to her, "Hannah, why do you weep? And why do you not eat? And why is your heart grieved? Am I not better to you than ten sons?"

9 So Hannah rose after they had eaten in Shiloh and after they had drank. (Now Eli the priest sat upon a seat by a post of the temple of the LORD.) 10 And she was in bitterness of soul and prayed to the LORD and wept bitterly. 11 And she vowed a vow and said, "O LORD of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your servant and remember me and not forget your servant, but will give to your servant a male child, then I will give him to the LORD all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head."

12 And it came to pass, as she continued praying before the LORD, that Eli observed her mouth. 13 Now Hannah spoke in her heart. Only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. Therefore, Eli thought she had been drunken. 14 And Eli said to her, "How long will you be drunken? Put away your wine from you." 15 And Hannah answered and said, "No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have drank neither wine or strong drink, but have poured out my soul before the LORD. 16 Do not count your servant for a daughter of Belial. For out of the abundance of my complaint and grief I have spoken until now." 17 Then Eli answered and said, "Go in peace. And may the God of Israel grant you your petition that you have asked of him." 18 And she said, "Let your servant find grace in your sight." So the woman went her way and ate, and her countenance was no longer sad.

19 And they rose early in the morning, worshiped before the LORD, and returned and came to their house in Ramah. And Elkanah knew Hannah his wife, and the LORD remembered her. 20 Therefore, it came to pass, when the time had arrived after Hannah had conceived, that she bore a son and called his name Samuel, saying, "Because I have asked for him from the LORD."

21 And the man Elkanah and all his house went up to offer to the LORD the yearly sacrifice and his vow. 22 But Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, "I will not go up until the child is weaned, and then I will bring him so that he may appear before the LORD and abide there forever." 23 And Elkanah her husband said to her, "Do what seems good to you. Stay until you have weaned him. Only may the LORD establish his word." So the woman stayed and nursed her son until she weaned him. 24 And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bulls, one ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him to the house of the LORD in Shiloh. And the child was young. 25 And they slew a bull and brought the child to Eli. 26 And she said, "O my lord, as your soul lives, my lord, I am the woman who stood by you here praying to the LORD. 27 For this child I prayed, and the LORD has given me my petition which I asked of him. 28 Therefore, I have also lent him to the LORD. As long as he lives he shall be lent to the LORD." And he worshiped the LORD there.

[#fsa002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_Hannah's song in thankfulness, 1-11. The sin of Eli's sons, 12-17. Samuel's ministry, 18, 19. By Eli's blessing Hannah is more fruitful, 20, 21. Eli reproves his sons, 22-26. A prophecy against Eli's house, 27-36._

1 And Hannah prayed and said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"My heart rejoices in the LORD. [.linebr]#/# +
My horn is exalted in the LORD. [.linebr]#/# +
My mouth is enlarged over my enemies [.linebr]#/# +
because I rejoice in your salvation.

|
|2 "There is no one holy as the LORD, [.linebr]#/# +
for there is no one besides you, [.linebr]#/# +
neither is there any rock like our God.

|
|3 No longer talk so very proudly. [.linebr]#/# +
Do not let arrogance come out of your mouth. [.linebr]#/# +
For the LORD is a God of knowledge, [.linebr]#/# +
and by him actions are weighed.

|
|4 The bows of the mighty men are broken, [.linebr]#/# +
and those who stumbled are girded with strength.

|
|5 Those who were full have hired out themselves for bread, [.linebr]#/# +
and those who were hungry ceased. [.linebr]#/# +
Even the barren has borne seven, [.linebr]#/# +
and she who has many children has become feeble.

|
|6 The LORD kills and makes alive. [.linebr]#/# +
He brings down to the grave and brings up.

|
|7 The LORD makes poor and makes rich. [.linebr]#/# +
He brings low and lifts up.

|
|8 He raises the poor out of the dust [.linebr]#/# +
and lifts the beggar from the dunghill [.linebr]#/# +
to set them among princes [.linebr]#/# +
and to make them inherit the throne of glory. [.linebr]#/# +
For the pillars of the earth are the LORD'S, [.linebr]#/# +
and he has set the world upon them.

|
|9 "He will keep the feet of his saints, [.linebr]#/# +
and the wicked shall be silent in darkness. [.linebr]#/# +
For by strength no man shall prevail.

|
|10 The adversaries of the LORD shall be broken to pieces. [.linebr]#/# +
Out of heaven he shall thunder upon them. [.linebr]#/# +
The LORD shall judge the ends of the earth, [.linebr]#/# +
and he shall give strength to his king [.linebr]#/# +
and exalt the horn of his anointed."
|===

11 And Elkanah went to his house in Ramah. And the child ministered to the LORD before Eli the priest.

12 Now the sons of Eli were sons of Belial. They did not know the LORD. 13 And the priest's custom with the people was this: when any man offered sacrifice, the priest's servant came with a flesh-hook of three teeth in his hand while the flesh was boiling, 14 And he struck it into the pan, kettle, cauldron, or pot, and all that the flesh-hook brought up the priest took for himself. They did so in Shiloh to all the Israelites who came there. 15 Also before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came and said to the man who sacrificed, "Give flesh to roast for the priest, for he will not have boiled flesh from you, only raw." 16 And if any man said to him, "Do not let them fail to burn the fat presently, and then take as much as your soul desires," then he would answer him, "No, but you shall give it to me now. And if not, I will take it by force." 17 Therefore, the sin of the young men was very great before the LORD, for men abhorred the offering of the LORD.

18 But Samuel ministered before the LORD, being a child, girded with a linen ephod. 19 Moreover, his mother made him a little coat and brought it to him from year to year when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice. 20 And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife and said, "May the LORD give you children from this woman for the loan which is lent to the LORD." And they went to their own home.

21 And the LORD visited Hannah so that she conceived and bore three sons and two daughters. And the child Samuel grew before the LORD.

22 Now Eli was very old and heard all that his sons did to all Israel and how they lay with the women who assembled at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 23 And he said to them, "Why do you do such things? For I hear of your evil dealings by all this people. 24 No, my sons. For it is no good report that I hear. You cause the LORD'S people to transgress. 25 If one man sins against another, the judge shall judge him, but if a man sins against the LORD, who shall entreat for him?" Nevertheless, they did not listen to the voice of their father because the LORD was inclined to slay them.

26 And the child Samuel continued to grow and was in favor both with the LORD and also with men.

27 And there came a man of God to Eli and said to him, "Thus says the LORD: 'Did I plainly appear to the house of your father when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house? 28 And did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer upon my altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me? And did I give to the house of your father all the offerings made by fire of the children of Israel? 29 Why do you kick at my sacrifice and at my offering, which I have commanded in my habitation, and honor your sons above me to make yourselves fat with the chiefest of all the offerings of Israel my people?' 30 Therefore, the LORD God of Israel says, 'I said indeed that your house and the house of your father should walk before me forever.' But now the LORD says, 'Be it far from me, for those who honor me I will honor and those who despise me shall be lightly esteemed. 31 Behold, the days come that I will cut off your arm and the arm of your father's house so that there shall not be an old man in your house. 32 And you shall see an enemy in my habitation in all the wealth which God shall give Israel. And there shall not be an old man in your house forever. 33 And the man of yours, whom I shall not cut off from my altar, is to consume your eyes and to grieve your heart. And all the increase of your house shall die in the flower of their age. 34 And this shall be a sign to you that shall come upon your two sons, on Hophni and Phinehas: in one day both of them shall die. 35 And I will raise up for myself a faithful priest who shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind. And I will build him a sure house, and he shall walk before my Anointed forever. 36 And it shall come to pass, that everyone who is left in your house shall come and crouch to him for a piece of silver and a morsel of bread, and shall say, "Put me, I pray you, into one of the priest's offices so that I may eat a piece of bread."'"

[#fsa003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_How the word of the Lord was first revealed to Samuel, 1-10. God tells Samuel about the destruction of Eli's house, 11-14. Samuel, though reluctant, tells Eli the vision, 15-18. Samuel grows in credit, 19-21._

1 And the child Samuel ministered to the LORD before Eli. And the word of the LORD was precious in those days. There was no open vision.

2 And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was laid down in his place and his eyes began to grow dim so that he could not see, 3 And before the lamp of God went out in the temple of the LORD where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep, 4 That the LORD called Samuel. And he answered, "Here I am." 5 And he ran to Eli and said, "Here I am. You called me." And he said, "I did not call. Lie down again." And he went and lay down. 6 And the LORD called yet again, "Samuel." And Samuel arose and went to Eli and said, "Here I am. You did call me." And he answered, "I did not call, my son. Lie down again." 7 Now Samuel did not yet know the LORD, neither was the word of the LORD yet revealed to him. 8 And the LORD called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli and said, "Here I am. You called me." And Eli perceived that the LORD had called the child. 9 Therefore, Eli said to Samuel, "Go, lie down. And it shall be, if he calls you, that you shall say, 'Speak, LORD, for your servant hears.'" So Samuel went and lay down in his place.

10 And the LORD came and stood and called as at other times, "Samuel, Samuel." Then Samuel answered, "Speak, for your servant hears." 11 And the LORD said to Samuel, "Behold, I will do a thing in Israel at which both the ears of everyone who hears it shall tingle. 12 In that day, I will perform against Eli all things which I have spoken concerning his house. When I begin, I will also make an end. 13 For I have told him that I will judge his house forever for the iniquity which he knows, because his sons made themselves vile and he did not restrain them. 14 And therefore, I have sworn to the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be purged with sacrifice nor offering forever."

15 And Samuel lay until the morning and opened the doors of the house of the LORD. And Samuel feared to show Eli the vision. 16 Then Eli called Samuel and said, "Samuel, my son." And he answered, "Here I am." 17 And he said, "What is the thing that the LORD has said to you? I pray you do not hide it from me. May God do so to you and more also if you hide anything from me of all the things that he said to you." 18 And Samuel told him everything and hid nothing from him. And he said, "It is the LORD. Let him do what seems good to him."

19 And Samuel grew, and the LORD was with him and let none of his words fall to the ground. 20 And all Israel, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the LORD. 21 And the LORD appeared again in Shiloh, for the LORD revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the LORD.

[#fsa004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_The Israelites are overcome by the Philistines at Ebenezer, 1, 2. They fetch the ark to the terror of the Philistines, 3-9. They are smitten again, the ark taken, and Hophni and Phinehas are slain, 10, 11. Eli hears the news and falls backward and breaks his neck, 12-18. Phinehas's wife, discouraged in her travail with Ichabod, dies, 19-22._

1 And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle and encamped beside Eben-ezer. And the Philistines encamped in Aphek. 2 And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel. And when they joined battle, Israel was smitten before the Philistines. And they slew about four thousand men of the army in the field. 3 And when the people had come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, "Why has the LORD smitten us today before the Philistines? Let us bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of Shiloh to us, so that when it comes among us, it may save us from the hand of our enemies." 4 So the people sent to Shiloh so that they might bring from there the ark of the covenant of the LORD of hosts, who dwells between the cherubim. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.

5 And when the ark of the covenant of the LORD came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout so that the earth resounded. 6 And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, "What does the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews mean?" And they understood that the ark of the LORD had come into the camp. 7 And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, "God has come into the camp." And they said, "Woe to us! For there has not been such a thing before. 8 Woe to us! Who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? These are the gods who smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness. 9 Be strong and acquit yourselves like men, O Philistines, so that you may not be servants to the Hebrews, as they have been to you. Acquit yourselves like men and fight."

10 So the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten, and they each fled into his tent. And there was a very great slaughter, for there fell thirty thousand footmen of Israel. 11 And the ark of God was taken. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were slain.

12 And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the army and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes rent and with earth upon his head. 13 And when he came, behold, Eli sat upon a seat by the wayside watching, for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city and told it, all the city cried out. 14 And when Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, "What does the noise of this tumult mean?" And the man came in hastily and told Eli. 15 Now Eli was ninety-eight years old and his eyes were dim so that he could not see. 16 And the man said to Eli, "I am he who came out of the army, and I fled today out of the army." And he said, "How did the matter go, my son?" 17 And the messenger answered and said, "Israel has fled before the Philistines. And there has been also a great slaughter among the people, and your two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead. And the ark of God has been taken." 18 And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that he fell from off the seat backward by the side of the gate, and his neck broke and he died, for he was an old and heavy man. And he had judged Israel forty years.

19 And his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was with child and about to deliver. And when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and travailed, for her pains came upon her. 20 And about the time of her death, the women who stood by her said to her, "Do not fear, for you have borne a son." But she did not answer, neither did she regard it. 21 And she named the child Ichabod, saying, "The glory has departed from Israel"—because the ark of God was taken and because of her father-in-law and her husband. 22 And she said, "The glory has departed from Israel, for the ark of God has been taken."

[#fsa005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_The Philistines, having brought the ark into Ashdod, set it in the house of Dagon, 1, 2. Dagon is smitten down and cut in pieces, and those of Ashdod smitten with emerods, 3-7. In the same manner God deals with those of Gath when it was brought there, 8, 9; and likewise with those of Ekron when it was brought there, 10-12._

1 And the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it from Eben-ezer to Ashdod. 2 When the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon and set it by Dagon. 3 And when those of Ashdod arose early on the next day, behold, Dagon had fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark of the LORD. And they took Dagon and set him in his place again. 4 And when they arose early on the next morning, behold, Dagon had fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of the LORD. And the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold. Only the stump of Dagon was left to him. 5 Therefore, neither the priests of Dagon, nor any who come into Dagon's house, tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod to this day.

6 But the hand of the LORD was heavy upon those of Ashdod, and he destroyed them and smote them with emerods, even Ashdod and its borders. 7 And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, "The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us, for his hand is severe upon us and upon Dagon our god." 8 They sent therefore, and gathered all the lords of the Philistines to them and said, "What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?" And they answered, "Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried to Gath." And they carried the ark of the God of Israel there. 9 And it was so, that after they had carried it there, the hand of the LORD was against the city with a very great destruction, and he smote the men of the city both small and great, and they had emerods in their secret parts. 10 Therefore, they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And it came to pass as the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, "They have brought the ark of the God of Israel to us to slay us and our people." 11 So they sent and convened all the lords of the Philistines and said, "Send the ark of the God of Israel away, and let it go back to its own place so that it does not slay us and our people." For there was a deadly destruction throughout all the city. The hand of God was very heavy there. 12 And the men who did not die were smitten with the emerods, and the cry of the city went up to heaven.

[#fsa006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_After seven months the Philistines take counsel on how to send back the ark, 1-9. They bring it on a new cart with an offering to Beth-shemesh, 10-18. The people are smitten for looking into the ark, 19, 20. They send to those of Kirjath-jearim to fetch it, 21._

1 And the ark of the LORD was in the country of the Philistines seven months. 2 And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, "What shall we do to the ark of the LORD? Tell us with what we shall send it to its place." 3 And they said, "If you send away the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it empty, but certainly return him a trespass-offering. Then you will be healed, and it will be known to you why his hand is not removed from you." 4 Then they said, "What shall be the trespass-offering which we shall return to him?" They answered, "Five golden emerods and five golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines, for one plague was on you all and on your lords. 5 Therefore, you shall make images of your emerods and images of your mice that mar the land, and you shall give glory to the God of Israel. It may be that he will lighten his hand from off you, from off your gods, and from off your land. 6 Why then do you harden your hearts, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? When he had wrought wonderfully among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed? 7 Now therefore, make a new cart and take two milk cows on which there has come no yoke, tie the cows to the cart, and bring their calves home from them. 8 And take the ark of the LORD, lay it upon the cart, and put the jewels of gold which you return to him for a trespass-offering in a coffer by its side, and send it away so that it may go. 9 And behold, if it goes up by the way of his own border to Beth-shemesh, then he has done us this great evil, but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us. It was a chance that happened to us."

10 And the men did so, and took two milk cows, tied them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home. 11 And they laid the ark of the LORD upon the cart and the coffer with the mice of gold and the images of their emerods. [[fsa006-012]]12 And the cows took the straight way to the way of Beth-shemesh and went along the highway, lowing as they went, and did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. And the lords of the Philistines went after them to the border of Beth-shemesh.

13 And the people of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley. And they lifted up their eyes, saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it. 14 And the cart came into the field of Joshua, a Beth-shemite, and stood there where there was a great stone. And they cleaved the wood of the cart and offered the cows as a burnt-offering to the LORD. 15 And the Levites took down the ark of the LORD and the coffer that was with it, in which were the jewels of gold, and put them on the great stone. And the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day to the LORD. 16 And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.

17 And these are the golden emerods which the Philistines returned for a trespass-offering to the LORD: for Ashdod, one; for Gaza, one; for Askelon, one; for Gath, one; for Ekron, one; 18 And the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities and of country villages, even to the great stone of Abel on which they set down the ark of the LORD—which stone remains to this day in the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite.

19 And he smote the men of Beth-shemesh because they had looked into the ark of the LORD. He even smote among the people seventy men, fifty thousand men. And the people lamented because the LORD had smitten many of the people with a great slaughter. 20 And the men of Beth-shemesh said, "Who is able to stand before Yahweh, this holy God? And to whom shall he go up from us?" 21 And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kirjath-jearim, saying, "The Philistines have brought back the ark of the LORD. Come down and bring it up to you."

[#fsa007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_Those of Kirjath-jearim bring the ark into the house of Abinadab and sanctify Eleazar his son to keep it, 1. After twenty years, 2, the Israelites, by Samuel's means, solemnly repent at Mizpeh, 3-6. While Samuel prays and sacrifices, the Lord confuses the Philistines by thunder at Eben-ezer, 7-12. The Philistines are subdued, 13, 14. Samuel judges Israel, 15-17._

1 And the men of Kirjath-jearim came and brought up the ark of the LORD. And they brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of the LORD. 2 And it came to pass, while the ark stayed in Kirjath-jearim, that the time was long, for it was twenty years, and all the house of Israel lamented after the LORD.

3 And Samuel spoke to all the house of Israel, saying, "If you return to the LORD with all your hearts, then put away the strange gods and Ashtaroth from among you, prepare your hearts to the LORD, and serve him only, and he will deliver you from the hand of the Philistines." 4 Then the children of Israel put away Baalim and Ashtaroth and served the LORD only.

5 And Samuel said, "Gather all Israel to Mizpeh and I will pray for you to the LORD." 6 And they assembled at Mizpeh and drew water, poured it out before the LORD, and fasted on that day, and there said, "We have sinned against the LORD." And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpeh.

7 And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were assembled at Mizpeh, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines. 8 And the children of Israel said to Samuel, "Do not cease to cry to the LORD our God for us so that he will save us from the hand of the Philistines." 9 And Samuel took a nursing lamb and offered it for a burnt-offering wholly to the LORD. And Samuel cried to the LORD for Israel, and the LORD heard him. 10 And as Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel. But the LORD thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines and confused them, and they were smitten before Israel. 11 And the men of Israel went out of Mizpeh, pursued the Philistines, and smote them until they came under Beth-car.

12 Then Samuel took a stone, set it between Mizpeh and Shen, and called its name Eben-ezer, saying, "Until now the LORD has helped us." 13 So the Philistines were subdued and they no longer came into the borders of Israel. And the hand of the LORD was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel. 14 And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath, and its borders Israel delivered from the hands of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.

15 And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life. 16 And he went from year to year in circuit to Beth-el, Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and judged Israel in all those places. 17 And his return was to Ramah, for his house was there. There he judged Israel and there he built an altar to the LORD.

[#fsa008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_By occasion of the ill government of Samuel's sons, the Israelites ask for a king, 1-5. Samuel, praying in grief, is comforted by God, 6-9. He describes the manner of a king, 10-18. God tells Samuel to yield to the importunity of the people, 19-22._

1 And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel. 2 Now the name of his first-born was Joel and the name of his second was Abiah. They were judges in Beer-sheba. 3 And his sons did not walk in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, took bribes, and perverted judgment.

4 Then all the elders of Israel assembled and came to Samuel at Ramah, 5 And said to him, "Behold, you are old and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now make us a king to judge us like all the nations." 6 But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, "Give us a king to judge us." And Samuel prayed to the LORD. 7 And the LORD said to Samuel, "Listen to the voice of the people in all that they say to you. For they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me so that I should not reign over them. 8 According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them out of Egypt even to this day, by which they have forsaken me and served other gods, so they also do to you. 9 Now therefore, listen to their voice; however, you shall solemnly testify to them and show them the manner of the king who will reign over them."

10 And Samuel told all the words of the LORD to the people who asked of him a king. 11 And he said, "This will be the manner of the king who shall reign over you: He will take your sons and appoint them for himself and for his chariots and to be his horsemen, and some will run before his chariots. 12 And he will appoint for himself captains over thousands and captains over fifties and will set them to till his ground, to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war and instruments of his chariots. 13 And he will take your daughters to be confectioners, to be cooks, and to be bakers. 14 And he will take your fields, your vineyards, and your olive-groves, even the best of them, and give them to his servants. 15 And he will take the tenth of your seed and of your vineyards and give it to his officers and to his servants. 16 And he will take your men-servants, your women-servants, your most choice young men, and your donkeys and put them to his work. 17 He will take the tenth of your sheep. And you will be his servants. 18 And you shall cry out in that day because of your king which you have chosen for yourselves, and the LORD will not hear you in that day."

19 Nevertheless, the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel. And they said, "No, but we will have a king over us, 20 So that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, go out before us, and fight our battles." 21 And Samuel heard all the words of the people and he rehearsed them in the ears of the LORD. 22 And the LORD said to Samuel, "Listen to their voice and make them a king." And Samuel said to the men of Israel, "Every man go to his city."

[#fsa009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_Saul despairing to find his father's donkeys, 1-5, by the counsel of his servant, 6-10, and direction of young women, 11-14, according to God's revelation, 15-17, comes to Samuel, 18. Samuel entertains Saul at the feast, 19-24. Samuel, after secret communication, brings Saul on his way, 25-27._

1 Now there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah, a Benjaminite, a mighty man of power. 2 And he had a son whose name was Saul, a choice and handsome young man. And there was not among the children of Israel a more handsome person than he was. From his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.

3 And the donkeys of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. And Kish said to Saul his son, "Now take one of the servants with you and arise and go seek the donkeys." 4 And he passed through mount Ephraim and passed through the land of Shalisha, but they did not find them. Then they passed through the land of Shalim, and they were not there. And he passed through the land of the Benjaminites, but they did not find them.

5 And when they had come to the land of Zuf, Saul said to his servant who was with him, "Come, and let us return, lest my father cease caring for the donkeys and be anxious for us." 6 And he said to him, "Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is an honorable man. All that he says surely comes to pass. Now let us go there. It may be that he can show us our way that we should go." 7 Then Saul said to his servant, "But behold, if we go, what shall we bring to the man? For the bread is spent in our vessels and there is not a present to bring to the man of God. What do we have?" 8 And the servant answered Saul again and said, "Behold, I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver. I will give that to the man of God to tell us our way." 9 (Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, thus he spoke: "Come, and let us go to the seer." For he who is now called a Prophet was formerly called a Seer.) 10 Then Saul said to his servant, "Well said. Come, let us go." So they went to the city where the man of God was.

11 And as they went up the hill to the city, they found young women going out to draw water and said to them, "Is the seer here?" 12 And they answered them and said, "He is. Behold, he is before you. Make haste now, for he came today to the city, for there is a sacrifice of the people today in the high place. 13 As soon as you enter the city, you will immediately find him before he goes up to the high place to eat. For the people will not eat until he comes because he blesses the sacrifice. And afterward, those who are invited will eat. Now therefore, go up, for about this time you will find him." 14 And they went up into the city. And as they were coming into the city, behold, Samuel came out to meet them on his way up to the high place.

15 Now the LORD had told Samuel in his ear a day before Saul came, saying, 16 "Tomorrow about this time I will send you a man out of the land of Benjamin, and you shall anoint him to be captain over my people Israel so that he may save my people from the hand of the Philistines. For I have looked upon my people because their cry has come to me." 17 And when Samuel saw Saul, the LORD said to him, "Behold the man of whom I spoke to you! This one shall reign over my people." 18 Then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate and said, "Tell me, I pray you, where the seer's house is." 19 And Samuel answered Saul and said, "I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place, for you shall eat with me today. And tomorrow I will let you go and tell you all that is in your heart. 20 And as for your donkeys that were lost three days ago, do not set your mind on them, for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not on you and on all your father's house?" 21 And Saul answered and said, "Am I not a Benjaminite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? And is my family not the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then do you speak to me in this manner?"

22 And Samuel took Saul and his servant, brought them into the chamber, and made them sit in the chief place among those who were invited, who were about thirty persons. 23 And Samuel said to the cook, "Bring the portion which I gave you, of which I said to you, 'Set it by you.'" 24 And the cook took up the shoulder and that which was upon it and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, "Behold that which is left! Set it before you and eat, because it has been kept for you for the appointed time, for I said, 'I have invited the people.'" So Saul ate with Samuel that day.

25 And when they had come down from the high place into the city, Samuel spoke with Saul upon the top of the house. 26 And they rose early, and it came to pass about the spring of the day, that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house, saying, "Arise so that I may send you away." And Saul arose, and the both of them went out—he and Samuel—abroad. 27 And as they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul, "Bid the servant pass on before us"—and he passed on—"but stand still a while so that I may show you the word of God."

[#fsa010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_Samuel anoints Saul, 1. He confirms him by prediction of three signs, 2-8. Saul's heart is changed and he prophesies, 9-13. He conceals the matter of the kingdom from his uncle, 14-16. Saul is chosen at Mizpeh by lot, 17-25. The different affections of his subjects, 26, 27._

1 Then Samuel took a vial of oil, poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, "Is it not because the LORD has anointed you to be captain over his inheritance? 2 When you have departed from me today, you shall find two men by Rachel's sepulcher in the border of Benjamin at Zelzah, and they will say to you, 'The donkeys which you went to seek are found, and behold, your father has ceased caring for the donkeys and sorrows for you, saying, "What shall I do for my son?"' 3 Then you shall go on forward from there and shall come to the plain of Tabor, and three men going up to God at Beth-el shall meet you there: one carrying three kids, another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine. 4 And they will salute you and give you two loaves of bread, which you shall receive from their hands. 5 After that you shall come to the hill of God where the garrison of the Philistines is. And it shall come to pass, when you have come there to the city, that you shall meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, a tambourine, a pipe, and a harp before them, and they will prophesy. 6 And the Spirit of the LORD will come upon you, and you shall prophesy with them and be turned into another man. 7 And let it be, when these signs have come to you, that you do as occasion serves you, for God is with you. 8 And you shall go down before me to Gilgal, and behold, I will come down to you to offer burnt-offerings and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings. Seven days you shall wait until I come to you and show you what you shall do."

9 And it was so, that when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart. And all those signs came to pass that day. 10 And when they came there to the hill, behold, a company of prophets met him. And the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them. 11 And it came to pass when all who formerly knew him saw, that behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said to one another, "What is this that has come to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?" 12 And someone of the same place answered and said, "But who is their father?" Therefore, it became a proverb: "Is Saul also among the prophets?" 13 And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.

14 And Saul's uncle said to him and to his servant, "Where did you go?" And he said, "To seek the donkeys. And when we saw that they were nowhere, we came to Samuel." 15 And Saul's uncle said, "Tell me, I pray you, what Samuel said to you." 16 And Saul said to his uncle, "He told us plainly that the donkeys were found." But of the matter of the kingdom, of which Samuel spoke, he did not tell him.

17 And Samuel called the people together to the LORD at Mizpeh, 18 And said to the children of Israel, "Thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'I brought Israel out of Egypt and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of those who oppressed you. 19 And you have this day rejected your God who saved you himself out of all your adversities and your tribulations, and you have said to him, "No, but set a king over us." Now therefore, present yourselves before the LORD by your tribes and by your thousands.'"

20 And when Samuel had caused all the tribes of Israel to come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken. 21 When he had caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, the family of Matri was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was taken. And when they sought him, he could not be found. 22 Therefore, they inquired of the LORD further: "Is there still anyone to come here?" And the LORD answered, "Behold, he has hid himself among the vessels." 23 And they ran and brought him from there. And when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward. 24 And Samuel said to all the people, "Do you see him whom the LORD has chosen, that there is no one like him among all the people?" And all the people shouted and said, "God save the king."

25 Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, wrote it in a book, and laid it up before the LORD. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house. 26 And Saul also went home to Gibeah, and a band of men went with him, whose hearts God had touched. 27 But the children of Belial said, "How shall this man save us?" And they despised him and brought him no presents. But he held his peace.

[#fsa011%breakable]
=== Chapter 11

[.outline.text-center]
_Nahash offers those of Jabesh-gilead a reproachful condition, 1-3. They send messengers and are delivered by Saul, 4-11. Saul thereby is confirmed and his kingdom renewed, 12-15._

1 Then Nahash the Ammonite came up and encamped against Jabesh-gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, "Make a covenant with us, and we will serve you." 2 And Nahash the Ammonite answered them, "On this condition I will make a covenant with you: that I may thrust out all your right eyes and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel." 3 And the elders of Jabesh said to him, "Give us seven days respite so that we may send messengers to all the borders of Israel. And then, if there is no man to save us, we will come out to you." 4 Then the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and told the tidings in the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voices and wept.

5 And behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field, and Saul said, "What ails the people so that they weep?" And they told him the tidings of the men of Jabesh. 6 And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard those tidings, and his anger was kindled greatly. 7 And he took a yoke of oxen, hewed them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hands of messengers, saying, "Whoever does not come forth after Saul and after Samuel, this is what shall be done to his oxen." And the fear of the LORD fell on the people, and they came out with one consent. 8 And when he numbered them in Bezek, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand and the men of Judah thirty thousand. 9 And they said to the messengers who came, "Thus you shall say to the men of Jabesh-gilead: 'Tomorrow by the time the sun is hot, you shall have help.'" And the messengers came and declared it to the men of Jabesh, and they were glad. 10 Therefore, the men of Jabesh said, "Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you shall do with us all that seems good to you." 11 And it was so on the next day, that Saul disposed the people in three companies. And they came into the midst of the host in the morning-watch and slew the Ammonites until the heat of the day. And it came to pass, that those who remained were scattered so that two of them were not left together.

12 And the people said to Samuel, "Who is he who said, 'Shall Saul reign over us?' Bring the men so that we may put them to death." 13 And Saul said, "There shall not a man be put to death this day, for today the LORD has wrought salvation in Israel."

14 Then Samuel said to the people, "Come, and let us go to Gilgal and renew the kingdom there." 15 And all the people went to Gilgal. There they made Saul king before the LORD in Gilgal, sacrificed sacrifices of peace-offerings before the LORD, and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.

[#fsa012%breakable]
=== Chapter 12

[.outline.text-center]
_Samuel testifies his integrity, 1-5. He reproves the people of ingratitude, 6-15. He terrifies them with thunder in harvest time, 16-19. He comforts them in God's mercy, 20-25._

1 And Samuel said to all Israel, "Behold, I have listened to your voice in all that you said to me and have made a king over you. 2 And now, behold, the king walks before you, but I am old and gray-headed, and behold, my sons are with you. And I have walked before you from my childhood to this day. 3 Behold, here I am. Witness against me before the LORD and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Or whose donkey have I taken? Or whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? Or from whose hand have I received any bribe to blind my eyes with it? I will restore it to you." 4 And they said, "You have not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither have you taken anything from any man's hand." 5 And he said to them, "The LORD is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand." And they answered, "He is witness."

6 And Samuel said to the people, "It is the LORD who advanced Moses and Aaron and who brought your fathers out of the land of Egypt. 7 Now therefore, stand still so that I may reason with you before the LORD of all the righteous acts of the LORD which he did to you and to your fathers. 8 When Jacob had come into Egypt, and your fathers cried to the LORD, the LORD sent Moses and Aaron, who brought forth your fathers from Egypt and made them dwell in this place. 9 And when they forgot the LORD their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, who was captain of the host of Hazor, into the hand of the Philistines and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them. 10 And they cried to the LORD and said, 'We have sinned because we have forsaken the LORD and have served Baalim and Ashtaroth. But now deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve you.' 11 And the LORD sent Jerubbaal, Bedan, Jephthah, and Samuel and delivered you from the hand of your enemies on every side, and you dwelt safely.

12 "And when you saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, you said to me, 'No, but a king shall reign over us,' when the LORD your God was your king. 13 Now therefore, behold the king whom you have chosen and whom you have desired! And behold, the LORD has set a king over you. 14 If you will fear the LORD, serve him, obey his voice, and do not rebel against the commandment of the LORD, then both you and also the king who reigns over you shall continue following the LORD your God. 15 But if you will not obey the voice of the LORD, but rebel against the commandment of the LORD, then the hand of the LORD shall be against you as it was against your fathers. 16 Now therefore, stand and see this great thing which the LORD will do before your eyes. 17 Is it not wheat-harvest today? I will call to the LORD, and he will send thunder and rain so that you may perceive and see that your wickedness is great which you have done in the sight of the LORD in asking for yourselves a king." 18 So Samuel called to the LORD. And the LORD sent thunder and rain that day, and all the people greatly feared the LORD and Samuel.

19 And all the people said to Samuel, "Pray for your servants to the LORD your God so that we do not die. For we have added to all our sins this evil, to ask for ourselves a king." 20 And Samuel said to the people, "Do not fear. You have done all this wickedness. Yet do not turn aside from following the LORD, but serve the LORD with all your heart. 21 And do not turn aside, for then you would go after vain things which cannot profit nor deliver because they are vain. 22 For the LORD will not forsake his people for his great name's sake because it has pleased the LORD to make you his people. 23 Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against the LORD in ceasing to pray for you. But I will teach you the good and the right way. 24 Only fear the LORD and serve him in truth with all your heart. For consider what great things he has done for you. 25 But if you still do wickedly, you will be consumed—both you and your king."

[#fsa013%breakable]
=== Chapter 13

[.outline.text-center]
_Saul's select band, 1, 2. He calls the Hebrews to Gilgal against the Philistines, whose garrison Jonathan had smitten, 3, 4. The Philistines' great host, 5. The distress of the Israelites, 6, 7. Saul, weary of waiting for Samuel, sacrifices, 8-10. Samuel reproves him, 11-16. The three raiding bands of the Philistines, 17, 18. The stratagem of the Philistines to allow no smith in Israel, 19-23._

1 Saul reigned one year. And when he had reigned two years over Israel, 2 Saul chose for himself three thousand men of Israel, of which two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in the mountains of Beth-el and one thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin. And the rest of the people he sent each to his tent. 3 And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, "Let the Hebrews hear." 4 And all Israel heard it said that Saul had smitten a garrison of the Philistines and that Israel also was had in abomination with the Philistines. And the people were summoned to Saul at Gilgal.

5 And the Philistines assembled to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the sea shore in multitude. And they came up and encamped in Michmash, eastward from Beth-aven. 6 When the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble (for the people were distressed), the people hid themselves in caves, in thickets, in rocks, in high places, and in pits. 7 And some of the Hebrews went over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. As for Saul, he was still in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.

8 And he waited seven days, according to the set time that Samuel had appointed. But Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and the people were scattered from him. 9 And Saul said, "Bring here to me a burnt-offering and peace-offerings." And he offered the burnt-offering. 10 And it came to pass, that as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came. And Saul went out to meet him so that he might salute him. 11 And Samuel said, "What have you done?" And Saul said, "Because I saw that the people were scattered from me and that you did not come within the days appointed and that the Philistines assembled at Michmash, 12 Therefore I said, 'The Philistines will now come down upon me at Gilgal, and I have not made supplication to the LORD.' I felt compelled therefore and offered a burnt-offering." 13 And Samuel said to Saul, "You have done foolishly. You have not kept the commandment of the LORD your God which he commanded you. For now the LORD would have established your kingdom upon Israel forever. [[fsa013-014]]14 But now your kingdom shall not continue. The LORD has sought for himself a man after his own heart and the LORD has commanded him to be captain over his people because you have not kept that which the LORD commanded you."

15 And Samuel arose and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people who were present with him, about six hundred men. 16 And Saul, Jonathan his son, and the people who were present with them stayed in Gibeah of Benjamin, but the Philistines encamped in Michmash. 17 And the raiders came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned to the way that leads to Ophrah to the land of Shual, 18 Another company turned the way to Beth-horon, and another company turned to the way of the border that looks to the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.

19 Now there was no smith found throughout all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, "Lest the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears." 20 But all the Israelites went down to the Philistines, each to sharpen his share, his colter, his ax, and his mattock, 21 Whenever the edges of the mattocks, the colters, the forks, and the axes were blunt, and also to set the goads. 22 So it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan, but they were found with Saul and with Jonathan his son. 23 And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of Michmash.

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.14]*: Quoted in xref:#act013-022[Acts 13:22].

[#fsa014%breakable]
=== Chapter 14

[.outline.text-center]
_Jonathan goes and miraculously smites the Philistines' garrison, 1-14. A divine terror makes them beat themselves, 15, 16. Saul and his company, seeing the confusion in the Philistine host, come out against them, 17-20. The captivated Hebrews and the hidden Israelites join against them, 21-23. Saul's unadvised adjuration hinders the victory, 24-30. He restrains the people from eating blood, 31-34. He builds an altar, 35, 36. Jonathan, taken by lot, is saved by the people, 37-46. Saul's victories, strength, and family, 47-52._

1 Now it came to pass upon a day, that Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who bore his armor, "Come, and let us go over to the garrison of the Philistines that is on the other side." But he did not tell his father. 2 And Saul stayed in the uttermost part of Gibeah under a pomegranate tree which is in Migron. And the people who were with him were about six hundred men, 3 Along with Ahiah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the LORD'S priest in Shiloh, wearing an ephod. And the people did not know that Jonathan was gone. 4 And between the passages by which Jonathan sought to go over to the garrison of the Philistines, there was a sharp rock on one side and a sharp rock on the other side. And the name of one was Bozez and the name of the other Seneh. 5 The front of one was situated northward over against Michmash and the other southward over against Gibeah.

6 And Jonathan said to the young man who bore his armor, "Come, and let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised. It may be that the LORD will work for us, for there is no restraint to the LORD to save by many or by few." 7 And his armor-bearer said to him, "Do all that is in your heart. Turn yourself. Behold, I am with you according to your heart." 8 Then Jonathan said, "Behold, we will pass over to these men and reveal ourselves to them. 9 If they say to us, 'Wait until we come to you,' then we will stand still in our place and will not go up to them. 10 But if they say, 'Come up to us,' then we will go up, for the LORD has delivered them into our hand. And this shall be a sign to us." 11 And both of them revealed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, "Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the holes where they had hid themselves." 12 And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armor-bearer and said, "Come up to us, and we will show you something." And Jonathan said to his armor-bearer, "Come up after me, for the LORD has delivered them into the hand of Israel." 13 And Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armor-bearer after him. And they fell before Jonathan, and his armor-bearer slew after him. 14 And that first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armor-bearer made, was about twenty men, within about a half-acre of land, which a yoke of oxen might plow. 15 And there was a trembling in the host, in the field, and among all the people. The garrison and the raiders also trembled, and the earth quaked, and it was a very great trembling.

16 And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and behold, the multitude melted away and they went on beating down one another. 17 Then Saul said to the people who were with him, "Number now, and see who has gone from us." And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armor-bearer were not there. 18 And Saul said to Ahiah, "Bring here the ark of God"—for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel. 19 And it came to pass while Saul talked to the priest, that the noise that was in the host of the Philistines went on and increased. And Saul said to the priest, "Withdraw your hand." 20 And Saul and all the people who were with him assembled themselves and came to the battle. And behold, every man's sword was against his fellow and there was a very great confusion. 21 Moreover, the Hebrews who were with the Philistines before that time, who went up with them into the camp from the country around, even they also turned to be with the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan. 22 Likewise, all the men of Israel who had hid themselves in the mountains of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle. 23 So the LORD saved Israel that day. And the battle passed over to Beth-aven.

24 And the men of Israel were distressed that day, for Saul had adjured the people, saying, "Cursed is the man who eats any food until evening and until I am avenged of my enemies." So none of the people tasted any food. 25 And all the people of the land came to a forest and there was honey upon the ground. 26 And when the people had come into the forest, behold, the honey dropped, but no man put his hand to his mouth, for the people feared the oath. 27 But Jonathan did not hear when his father charged the people with the oath; therefore, he put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, dipped it in a honey-comb, and put his hand to his mouth and his eyes were enlightened. 28 Then one of the people answered and said, "Your father strictly charged the people with an oath, saying, 'Cursed is the man who eats any food this day.'" And the people were faint. 29 Then Jonathan said, "My father has troubled the land. See, I pray you, how my eyes have been enlightened because I tasted a little of this honey. 30 How much more, if perhaps the people had eaten freely today of the plunder of their enemies which they found? Would not the slaughter among the Philistines have been much greater?"

31 And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Ajalon. And the people were very faint. 32 And the people flew upon the plunder and took sheep, oxen, and calves and slew them on the ground. And the people ate them with the blood. 33 Then they told Saul, saying, "Behold, the people sin against the LORD in that they eat with the blood." And he said, "You have transgressed. Roll a great stone to me this day." 34 And Saul said, "Disperse yourselves among the people and say to them, 'Every man bring me here his ox and every man his sheep, and slay them here and eat, and do not sin against the LORD in eating with the blood.'" And all the people each brought his ox with him that night and slew them there. 35 And Saul built an altar to the LORD. The same was the first altar that he built to the LORD.

36 And Saul said, "Let us go down after the Philistines by night and plunder them until the morning light, and do not let us leave a man among them." And they said, "Do whatever seems good to you." Then the priest said, "Let us draw near to God here." 37 And Saul asked counsel of God, "Shall I go down after the Philistines? Will you deliver them into the hand of Israel?" But he did not answer him that day. 38 And Saul said, "Draw near here all the chief of the people, and know and see wherein this sin has been this day. 39 For as the LORD lives, who saves Israel, though it is in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die." But there was not a man among all the people who answered him. 40 Then he said to all Israel, "You be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side." And the people said to Saul, "Do what seems good to you." 41 Therefore, Saul said to the LORD God of Israel, "Give a perfect lot." And Saul and Jonathan were taken, but the people escaped. 42 And Saul said, "Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son." And Jonathan was taken.

43 Then Saul said to Jonathan, "Tell me what you have done." And Jonathan told him and said, "I only tasted a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand, and behold, I must die." 44 And Saul answered, "May God do so and more also, for you shall surely die, Jonathan." 45 And the people said to Saul, "Shall Jonathan die who has wrought this great salvation in Israel? By no means. As the LORD lives, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground, for he has wrought with God this day." So the people rescued Jonathan so that he did not die. 46 Then Saul went up from following the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their own place.

47 So Saul took the kingdom over Israel and fought against all his enemies on every side: against Moab, against the children of Ammon, against Edom, against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines. And wherever he turned himself, he harassed them. 48 And he gathered a host and smote the Amalekites and delivered Israel from the hands of those who plundered them.

49 Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan, Ishui, and Melchi-shua. And the names of his two daughters were these: the name of the first-born Merab and the name of the younger Michal. 50 And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz. And the name of the captain of his host was Abner, the son of Ner, Saul's uncle. 51 And Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.

52 And there was violent war against the Philistines all the days of Saul. And when Saul saw any strong man or any valiant man, he took him into his service.

[#fsa015%breakable]
=== Chapter 15

[.outline.text-center]
_Samuel sends Saul to destroy Amalek, 1-5. Saul favors the Kenites, 6. He spares Agag and the best of the plunder, 7-9. Samuel denounces to Saul God's rejection of him for his disobedience, 10-23. Saul's humiliation, 24-31. Samuel kills Agag, 32, 33. Samuel and Saul part, 34, 35._

1 Samuel also said to Saul, "The LORD sent me to anoint you to be king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore, listen to the voice of the words of the LORD. 2 Thus says the LORD of hosts: 'I remember that which Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way when he came up from Egypt. 3 Now go and smite Amalek and utterly destroy all that they have, and do not spare them, but slay both man and woman, child and infant, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.'"

4 And Saul assembled the people and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen and ten thousand men of Judah. 5 And Saul came to a city of Amalek and laid wait in the valley. 6 And Saul said to the Kenites, "Go, depart, withdraw yourselves from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them, for you showed kindness to all the children of Israel when they came up from Egypt." So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites. 7 And Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah, as far as Shur, that is over against Egypt. 8 And he took Agag the king of the Amalekites alive and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword. 9 But Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep, of the oxen, of the fattened calves, the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them. But everything that was vile and refuse, that they utterly destroyed.

10 Then the word of the LORD came to Samuel, saying, 11 "I repent that I have set up Saul to be king, for he has turned back from following me and has not performed my commandments." And it grieved Samuel and he cried to the LORD all night. 12 And when Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, it was told to Samuel, saying, "Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set himself up a place, then has turned around and passed on and gone down to Gilgal." 13 And Samuel came to Saul. And Saul said to him, "Blessed are you of the LORD. I have performed the commandment of the LORD." 14 And Samuel said, "What then does this bleating of the sheep in my ears and the lowing of the oxen which I hear mean?" 15 And Saul said, "They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen to sacrifice to the LORD your God, and the rest we have utterly destroyed." 16 Then Samuel said to Saul, "Stay, and I will tell you what the LORD has said to me this night." And he said to him, "Say on."

17 And Samuel said, "When you were little in your own sight, were you not made the head of the tribes of Israel and the LORD anointed you king over Israel? 18 And the LORD sent you on a journey and said, 'Go, and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites and fight against them until they are consumed.' 19 Why then did you not obey the voice of the LORD, but flew upon the plunder and did evil in the sight of the LORD?"

20 And Saul said to Samuel, "Indeed, I have obeyed the voice of the LORD. I have gone the way which the LORD sent me, and I have brought Agag the king of Amalek and utterly destroyed the Amalekites. 21 But the people took some of the plunder, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice to the LORD your God in Gilgal." 22 And Samuel said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Has the LORD as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices [.linebr]#/# +
as in obeying the voice of the LORD? [.linebr]#/# +
Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice [.linebr]#/# +
and to listen than the fat of rams.

|
|23 For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft [.linebr]#/# +
and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. [.linebr]#/# +
Because you have rejected the word of the LORD, [.linebr]#/# +
he has also rejected you from being king."
|===

24 And Saul said to Samuel, "I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of the LORD and your words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. 25 Now therefore, I pray you, pardon my sin and turn back with me so that I may worship the LORD." 26 And Samuel said to Saul, "I will not return with you, for you have rejected the word of the LORD, and the LORD has rejected you from being king over Israel." 27 And as Samuel turned around to depart, Saul laid hold upon the skirt of his mantle and it rent. 28 And Samuel said to him, "The LORD has rent the kingdom of Israel from you this day and has given it to a neighbor of yours who is better than you. 29 And also the Strength of Israel will not lie nor repent, for he is not a man that he should repent." 30 Then he said, "I have sinned. Yet honor me now, I pray you, before the elders of my people and before Israel, and turn back with me so that I may worship the LORD your God." 31 So Samuel turned back after Saul, and Saul worshiped the LORD.

32 Then Samuel said, "Bring Agag the king of the Amalekites here to me." And Agag came to him delicately. And Agag said, "Surely the bitterness of death is past." 33 And Samuel said, "As your sword has made women childless, so your mother shall be childless among women." And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before the LORD in Gilgal.

34 Then Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul. 35 And Samuel no longer came to see Saul until the day of his death. Nevertheless, Samuel mourned for Saul. And the LORD repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.

[#fsa016%breakable]
=== Chapter 16

[.outline.text-center]
_Samuel, sent by God under pretense of a sacrifice, comes to Beth-lehem, 1-5. His human judgment is reproved, 6-10. He anoints David, 11-14. Saul sends for David to quiet his evil spirit, 15-23._

1 And the LORD said to Samuel, "How long will you mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fill your horn with oil and go, I will send you to Jesse the Beth-lehemite, for I have provided myself a king among his sons." 2 And Samuel said, "How can I go? If Saul hears it, he will kill me." And the LORD said, "Take a heifer with you and say, 'I have come to sacrifice to the LORD.' 3 And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do. And you shall anoint to me him whom I name to you." 4 And Samuel did that which the LORD spoke and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the town trembled at his coming and said, "Do you come peaceably?" 5 And he said, "Peaceably. I have come to sacrifice to the LORD. Sanctify yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice." And he sanctified Jesse and his sons and called them to the sacrifice.

6 And it came to pass when they had come, that he looked on Eliab and said, "Surely the LORD'S anointed is before him." 7 But the LORD said to Samuel, "Do not look at his countenance or at the height of his stature, because I have refused him. For the LORD does not see as man sees—for man looks at the outward appearance, but the LORD looks at the heart." 8 Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, "The LORD has not chosen this one." 9 Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, "The LORD has not chosen this one." 10 Again, Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, "The LORD has not chosen these." 11 And Samuel said to Jesse, "Are all your children here?" And he said, "There still remains the youngest, and behold, he keeps the sheep." And Samuel said to Jesse, "Send and bring him, for we will not sit down until he has come here."

12 And he sent and brought him in. Now he was ruddy and also of a beautiful countenance and a good appearance. And the LORD said, "Arise, anoint him, for this is he." 13 Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers. And the Spirit of the LORD came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel arose and went to Ramah.

14 But the Spirit of the LORD departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the LORD troubled him. 15 And Saul's servants said to him, "Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubles you. 16 Let our lord now command your servants who are before you to seek a man who is a skillful player on a harp. And it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon you, that he will play with his hand, and you will be well." 17 And Saul said to his servants, "Provide me now a man who can play well and bring him to me." 18 Then one of the servants answered and said, "Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-lehemite who is skillful in playing, a mighty valiant man, a man of war, prudent in matters, and a handsome person, and the LORD is with him." 19 Therefore, Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, "Send to me David your son, who is with the sheep." 20 And Jesse took a donkey laden with bread and a bottle of wine and a kid and sent them to Saul by David his son. 21 And David came to Saul and stood before him. And [Saul] loved him greatly, and he became his armor-bearer. 22 And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, "Let David, I pray you, stand before me, for he has found favor in my sight." 23 And it came to pass, when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took a harp and played with his hand. Then Saul was refreshed and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.

[#fsa017%breakable]
=== Chapter 17

[.outline.text-center]
_The armies of the Israelites and Philistines being ready to battle, 1-3, Goliath challenges a combat, 4-11. David, sent by his father to visit his brothers, takes the challenge, 12-27. Eliab chides him, 28, 29. He is brought to Saul, 30, 31; shows the reason for his confidence, 32-37; and slays the giant, 38-54. Saul takes notice of David, 55-58._

1 Now the Philistines collected their armies to battle and were assembled at Shochoh, which belongs to Judah, and encamped between Shochoh and Azekah in Ephes-dammim. 2 And Saul and the men of Israel were assembled and encamped by the valley of Elah, and they set the battle in array against the Philistines. 3 And the Philistines stood on a mountain on one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side, and there was a valley between them. 4 And there went out a champion from the camp of the Philistines named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span. 5 And he had a helmet of brass upon his head and he was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass. 6 And he had greaves of brass upon his legs and a javelin of brass between his shoulders. 7 And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron. And someone bearing a shield went before him. 8 And he stood and cried to the armies of Israel and said to them, "Why have you come out to set your battle in array? Am I not a Philistine, and you servants of Saul? Choose a man for yourselves and let him come down to me. 9 If he is able to fight with me and kill me, then we will be your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill him, then you shall be our servants and serve us." 10 And the Philistine said, "I defy the armies of Israel this day. Give me a man so that we may fight together." 11 When Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and greatly afraid.

12 Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Beth-lehem-judah, whose name was Jesse, who had eight sons and was an old man in the days of Saul and aged among men. 13 And the three eldest sons of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle. And the names of his three sons who went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, next to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah. 14 And David was the youngest. And the three eldest followed Saul, 15 But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Beth-lehem. 16 And the Philistine drew near morning and evening and presented himself forty days.

17 And Jesse said to David his son, "Now take for your brothers an ephah of this parched grain and these ten loaves, and run to the camp to your brothers. 18 And carry these ten cheeses to the captain of their thousand. See how your brothers fare and take their pledge." 19 Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah fighting with the Philistines.

20 And David rose early in the morning and left the sheep with a keeper, and took and went as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the trench as the host was going forth to the fight and shouting for the battle. 21 And Israel and the Philistines had put the battle in array, army against army. 22 And David left his baggage in the hand of the keeper of the baggage, and ran into the army and came and saluted his brothers. 23 And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, from the armies of the Philistines, and spoke according to the same words. And David heard them.

24 And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him and were exceedingly afraid. 25 And the men of Israel said, "Have you seen this man who has come up? Surely to defy Israel he has come. And it shall be, that the man who kills him, the king will enrich him with great riches, give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel."

26 And David spoke to the men who stood by him, saying, "What shall be done to the man who kills this Philistine and takes away the reproach from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God?" 27 And the people answered him after this manner, saying, "So it shall be done to the man who kills him."

28 And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spoke to the men. And Eliab's anger was kindled against David and he said, "Why did you come down here? And with whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know your pride and the wickedness of your heart. For you have come down so that you may see the battle." 29 And David said, "What have I done now? Is there not a cause?" 30 And he turned from him toward another and spoke after the same manner. And the people answered him again after the former manner.

31 And when the words were heard which David spoke, they rehearsed them before Saul. And he sent for him. 32 And David said to Saul, "Let no man's heart fail because of him. Your servant will go and fight with this Philistine." 33 And Saul said to David, "You are not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him, for you are only a youth, and he is a man of war from his youth." 34 And David said to Saul, "Your servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion and a bear and took a lamb out of the flock. 35 And I went after him, smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth. And when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, smote him, and slew him. 36 Your servant slew both the lion and the bear. And this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he has defied the armies of the living God." 37 David said moreover, "The LORD who delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine." And Saul said to David, "Go, and may the LORD be with you." 38 And Saul armed David with his armor and he put a helmet of brass upon his head. He also armed him with a coat of mail. 39 And David girded his sword upon his armor and he essayed to go, for he had not proved it. And David said to Saul, "I cannot go with these, for I have not proved them." And David took them off from him. 40 And he took his staff in his hand, chose for himself five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's bag which he had, even in a pouch. Then, with his sling in his hand, he drew near to the Philistine.

41 And the Philistine advanced and drew near to David, and the man who bore the shield went before him. 42 And when the Philistine looked around and saw David, he disdained him, for he was a youth, ruddy, and of a fair countenance. 43 And the Philistine said to David, "Am I a dog that you come to me with staffs?" And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. 44 And the Philistine said to David, "Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the field." 45 Then David said to the Philistine, "You come to me with a sword, with a spear, and with a shield, but I come to you in the name of the LORD of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied. 46 This day the LORD will deliver you into my hand. And I will smite you and take your head from you. And I will give the carcasses of the host of the Philistines this day to the birds of the air and to the wild beasts of the earth so that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. 47 And all this assembly shall know that the LORD does not save with sword and spear, for the battle is the LORD'S, and he will give you into our hands."

48 And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose and came and drew near to meet David, that David hastened and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine. 49 And David put his hand in his bag, took from there a stone, hurled it with his sling, and smote the Philistine in his forehead so that the stone sunk into his forehead and he fell upon his face to the earth.

50 So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone. He smote the Philistine and slew him, but there was no sword in the hand of David. 51 Therefore, David ran and stood upon the Philistine, took his sword, drew it out of its sheath, slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they fled. 52 And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, shouted, and pursued the Philistines to the entrance of the valley and to the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath and to Ekron. 53 And the children of Israel returned from chasing the Philistines and plundered their tents. 54 And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem, but he put his armor in his tent.

55 And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said to Abner the captain of the host, "Abner, whose son is this youth?" And Abner said, "As your soul lives, O king, I cannot tell." 56 And the king said, "Inquire whose son the young man is." 57 And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand. 58 And Saul said to him, "Whose son are you, young man?" And David answered, "I am the son of your servant Jesse the Beth-lehemite."

[#fsa018%breakable]
=== Chapter 18

[.outline.text-center]
_Jonathan loves David, 1-4. Saul envies his praise, 5-9; seeks to kill him in his fury, 10, 11; fears him for his good success, 12-16; offers him his daughters for a snare, 17-21. David, persuaded to be the king's son-in-law, gives two hundred foreskins of the Philistines for Michal's dowry, 22-27. Saul's hatred and David's glory increase, 28-30._

1 And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking to Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. 2 And Saul took him that day and would no longer let him go home to his father's house. 3 Then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul. 4 And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him and gave it to David, along with his garments, even to his sword, to his bow, and to his girdle. 5 And David went out wherever Saul sent him and behaved himself wisely. And Saul set him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people and also in the sight of Saul's servants.

6 And it came to pass as they came, when David had returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with tambourines, with joy, and with instruments of music. 7 And the women answered one another as they played and said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Saul has slain his thousands, [.linebr]#/# +
and David his tens of thousands."
|===

8 And Saul was very angry, and the saying displeased him. And he said, "They have ascribed to David tens of thousands, and to me they have ascribed thousands. And what can he have more but the kingdom?" 9 And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.

10 And it came to pass on the next day, that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. And David played with his hand, as at other times. And there was a javelin in Saul's hand. 11 And Saul cast the javelin, for he said, "I will smite David even to the wall." And David escaped from his presence twice.

12 And Saul was afraid of David, because the LORD was with him but had departed from Saul. 13 Therefore, Saul sent him away from him and made him his captain over one thousand. And he went out and came in before the people. 14 And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways, and the LORD was with him. 15 Therefore, when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he was afraid of him. 16 But all Israel and Judah loved David because he went out and came in before them.

17 And Saul said to David, "Behold, my elder daughter Merab, I will give her to you for a wife. Only be valiant for me and fight the LORD'S battles." For Saul thought, "Do not let my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him." 18 And David said to Saul, "Who am I? And what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?" 19 But it came to pass at the time when Merab, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite for a wife.

20 And Michal, Saul's daughter, loved David. And they told Saul, and the thing pleased him. 21 And Saul said, "I will give her to him so that she may be a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him." Therefore, Saul said to David, "In a second way, you shall be my son-in-law today." 22 And Saul commanded his servants, saying, "Speak with David secretly and say, 'Behold, the king has delight in you, and all his servants love you. Now therefore, be the king's son-in-law.'" 23 And Saul's servants spoke those words in the ears of David. And David said, "Does it seem to you a light thing to be a king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man and lightly esteemed?" 24 And the servants of Saul told him, saying, "In this manner David spoke." 25 And Saul said, "Thus you shall say to David: 'The king does not desire any dowry, but one hundred foreskins of the Philistines to be avenged of the king's enemies.'" But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines. 26 And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law. And the days had not expired. 27 Therefore, David arose and went—he and his men—and slew two hundred men of the Philistines. And David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full number to the king so that he might be the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter for a wife. 28 And Saul saw and knew that the LORD was with David and that Michal, Saul's daughter, loved him. 29 And Saul was even more afraid of David. And Saul became David's enemy continually.

30 Then the princes of the Philistines went forth. And it came to pass after they went forth, that David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul so that his name was much esteemed.

[#fsa019%breakable]
=== Chapter 19

[.outline.text-center]
_Jonathan discloses his father's purpose to kill David, 1-3. He persuades his father to reconciliation, 4-7. By reason of David's good success in a new war, Saul's malicious rage breaks out against him, 8-11. Michal deceives her father with an image in David's bed, 12-17. David comes to Samuel in Naioth, 18, 19. Saul's messengers, sent to take David, 20, 21, and Saul himself, prophesy, 22-24._

1 And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants that they should kill David. 2 But Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, "Saul my father seeks to kill you. Now, therefore, I pray you, take heed to yourself until the morning, abide in a secret place, and hide yourself. 3 And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where you are and I will speak with my father about you. And what I see, that I will tell you." 4 And Jonathan spoke good of David to Saul his father and said to him, "Do not let the king sin against his servant, against David, because he has not sinned against you and because his works have been very good toward you. 5 For he put his life in his hand and slew the Philistine, and the LORD wrought a great salvation for all Israel. You saw it and rejoiced. Why then will you sin against innocent blood to slay David without a cause?" 6 And Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan. And Saul swore, "As the LORD lives, he shall not be slain." 7 And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan told him all those things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence as in times past.

8 And there was war again. And David went out and fought with the Philistines and slew them with a great slaughter, and they fled from him. 9 And the evil spirit from the LORD was upon Saul as he sat in his house with his javelin in his hand. And David played with his hand. 10 And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin, but he slipped away from Saul's presence as he drove the javelin into the wall. And David fled and escaped that night.

11 Saul also sent messengers to David's house to watch him and to slay him in the morning. And Michal, David's wife, told him, saying, "If you do not save your life tonight, tomorrow you will be slain." 12 So Michal let David down through a window, and he went, fled, and escaped. 13 And Michal took an image, laid it in the bed, put a pillow of goat's hair for his bolster, and covered it with a cloth. 14 And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, "He is sick." 15 And Saul sent the messengers back to see David, saying, "Bring him to me in the bed so that I may slay him." 16 And when the messengers had come in, behold, there was an image in the bed with a pillow of goat's hair for his bolster. 17 And Saul said to Michal, "Why have you deceived me like this and sent away my enemy so that he has escaped?" And Michal answered Saul, "He said to me, 'Let me go. Why should I kill you?'"

18 So David fled and escaped, and he came to Samuel at Ramah and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth. 19 And it was told to Saul, saying, "Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah." 20 And Saul sent messengers to take David. And when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying and Samuel standing as appointed over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul and they also prophesied. 21 And when it was told to Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also. 22 Then he went also to Ramah and came to a great well that is in Sechu. And he asked and said, "Where are Samuel and David?" And someone said, "Behold, they are at Naioth in Ramah." 23 And he went there to Naioth in Ramah. And the Spirit of God was upon him also, and he went on and prophesied until he came to Naioth in Ramah. 24 And he stripped off his clothes also and prophesied before Samuel in like manner, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Therefore, they say, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"

[#fsa020%breakable]
=== Chapter 20

[.outline.text-center]
_David consults with Jonathan for his safety, 1-10. Jonathan and David renew their covenant by oath, 11-17. Jonathan's token to David, 18-23. Saul, missing David, seeks to kill Jonathan, 24-34. Jonathan affectionately takes his leave of David, 35-42._

1 And David fled from Naioth in Ramah and came and said before Jonathan, "What have I done? What is my iniquity? And what is my sin before your father that he seeks my life?" 2 And he said to him, "Far be it from you. You shall not die. Behold, my father will do nothing either great or small without revealing it to me. And why should my father hide this thing from me? It is not so." 3 And David swore moreover and said, "Your father certainly knows that I have found grace in your eyes and he says, 'Do not let Jonathan know this, lest he should be grieved.' But truly as the LORD lives and as your soul lives, there is but a step between me and death." 4 Then Jonathan said to David, "Whatever your soul desires, I will even do it for you." 5 And David said to Jonathan, "Behold, tomorrow is the new-moon, and I should not fail to dine with the king. But let me go so that I may hide myself in the field until the third day at evening. 6 If your father at all misses me, then say, 'David earnestly asked leave of me so that he might run to Beth-lehem his city, for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the family.' 7 If he says, 'It is well,' your servant will have peace. But if he is very angry, then be sure that evil is determined by him. 8 Therefore, you shall deal kindly with your servant, for you have brought your servant into a covenant of the LORD with you. But if there is in me iniquity, slay me yourself. For why should you bring me to your father?" 9 And Jonathan said, "Far be it from you. For if I knew certainly that evil is determined by my father to come upon you, then would I not tell it to you?" 10 Then David said to Jonathan, "Who shall tell me? Or what if your father answers you roughly?" 11 And Jonathan said to David, "Come, and let us go out into the field." And the both of them went out into the field.

12 And Jonathan said to David, "O LORD God of Israel, when I have sounded out my father about this time tomorrow or the third day, and behold, if there is good toward David, and I then do not send to you and show it to you, 13 May the LORD do so and much more to Jonathan. But if it pleases my father to do you evil, then I will show it to you and send you away so that you may go in peace. And may the LORD be with you as he has been with my father. 14 And you shall, while I still live, not only show me the kindness of the LORD so that I may not die, 15 But also you shall not withdraw your kindness from my house forever, not even when the LORD has cut off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth." 16 So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, "Let the LORD even require it at the hand of David's enemies." 17 And Jonathan caused David to swear again, because he loved him, for he loved him as he loved his own soul.

18 Then Jonathan said to David, "Tomorrow is the new-moon, and you will be missed because your seat will be empty. 19 And when you have stayed three days, you shall go down quickly and come to the place where you hid yourself when the business was in hand, and you shall remain by the stone of Ezel. 20 And I will shoot three arrows on its side, as though I shot at a mark. 21 And behold, I will send a boy, saying, 'Go, find the arrows.' If I expressly say to the boy, 'Behold, the arrows are on this side of you, take them,' then come, for there is peace to you, and no hurt, as the LORD lives. 22 But if I say to the young man, 'Behold, the arrows are beyond you,' go your way, for the LORD has sent you away. 23 And as to the matter which you and I have spoken of, behold, the LORD is between you and me forever."

24 So David hid himself in the field. And when the new-moon had come, the king sat down to eat food. 25 And the king sat upon his seat as at other times, even upon a seat by the wall. And Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty. 26 Nevertheless, Saul did not speak anything that day, for he thought, "Something has befallen him, he is not clean. Surely he is not clean." 27 And it came to pass on the next day, which was the second day of the month, that David's place was empty. And Saul said to Jonathan his son, "Why does the son of Jesse not come to eat, neither yesterday, nor today?" 28 And Jonathan answered Saul, "David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Beth-lehem. 29 And he said, 'Let me go, I pray you, for our family has a sacrifice in the city, and my brother has commanded me to be there. And now if I have found favor in your eyes, let me get away, I pray you, and see my brothers.' Therefore, he does not come to the king's table."

30 Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan and he said to him, "You son of the perverse rebellious woman, do I not know that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame and to the shame of your mother's nakedness? 31 For as long as the son of Jesse lives upon the earth, you shall not be established, nor your kingdom. And now, send and bring him to me, for he shall surely die." 32 And Jonathan answered Saul his father and said to him, "Why shall he be slain? What has he done?" 33 And Saul cast a javelin at him to smite him—by which Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to slay David. 34 So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger and ate no food on the second day of the month, for he was grieved for David because his father had done him shame.

35 And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little boy with him. 36 And he said to his boy, "Run, find the arrows which I shoot." And as the boy ran, he shot an arrow beyond him. 37 And when the boy had come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the boy and said, "Is the arrow not beyond you?" 38 And Jonathan cried after the boy, "Make speed, hasten, do not stay." And Jonathan's boy gathered up the arrows and came to his master. 39 But the boy did not know anything. Only Jonathan and David knew the matter. 40 And Jonathan gave his arms to his boy and said to him, "Go, carry them to the city." 41 And as soon as the boy was gone, David arose out of a place toward the south, fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times. And they kissed one another and wept with one another until David exceeded. 42 And Jonathan said to David, "Go in peace, for we have sworn both of us in the name of the LORD, saying, 'The LORD is between you and me, and between my offspring and your offspring forever.'" And he arose and departed, and Jonathan went into the city.

[#fsa021%breakable]
=== Chapter 21

[.outline.text-center]
_At Nob, David obtains hallowed bread from Ahimelech, 1-6. Doeg is present, 7. David takes Goliath's sword, 8, 9. At Gath, David feigns himself mad, 10-15._

1 Then David came to Nob to Ahimelech the priest. And Ahimelech was afraid at the meeting of David and said to him, "Why are you alone and no man with you?" 2 And David said to Ahimelech the priest, "The king has commanded me a business and has said to me, 'Let no man know anything of the business about which I send you and what I have commanded you. And I have appointed my servants to such and such a place.' 3 Now therefore, what is under your hand? Give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or what there is present." 4 And the priest answered David and said, "There is no common bread under my hand, but there is hallowed bread, if the young men have kept themselves at least from women." 5 And David answered the priest and said to him, "Of a truth women have been kept from us about these three days since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a common manner, even though it was sanctified this day in the vessel." 6 So the priest gave him hallowed bread, for there was no bread there but the show-bread, which was taken from before the LORD and replaced with hot bread on the day it was taken away.

7 Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before the LORD. And his name was Doeg, an Edomite, the chief of the herdsmen who belonged to Saul.

8 And David said to Ahimelech, "And is there not here under your hand a spear or sword? For I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me because the king's business required haste." 9 And the priest said, "The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you slew in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If you will take that, take it, for there is no other except that here." And David said, "There is none like that. Give it to me."

10 And David arose and fled that day for fear of Saul and went to Achish the king of Gath. 11 And the servants of Achish said to him, "Is this not David the king of the land? Did they not sing to one another about him in dances, saying,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|'Saul has slain his thousands, [.linebr]#/# +
and David his tens of thousands?'"
|===

12 And David laid up these words in his heart and was greatly afraid of Achish the king of Gath. 13 And he changed his behavior before them and feigned himself mad in their hands, scrabbling on the doors of the gate and letting his spittle fall down upon his beard. 14 Then Achish said to his servants, "Behold, you see the man is mad. Why then have you brought him to me? 15 Have I need of mad-men that you have brought this man to play the mad-man in my presence? Shall this man come into my house?"

[#fsa022%breakable]
=== Chapter 22

[.outline.text-center]
_Companies resort to David at Adullam, 1, 2. At Mizpeh he commends his parents to the king of Moab, 3, 4. Admonished by Gad, he comes to Hareth, 5. Saul, going to pursue him, complains about his servants' unfaithfulness, 6-8. Doeg accuses Ahimelech, 9, 10. Saul commands to kill the priests, 11-16. The footmen refusing, Doeg executes it, 17-19. Abiathar escapes and brings David the news, 20-23._

1 David therefore departed from there and escaped to the cave of Adullam. And when his brothers and all his father's house heard it, they went down there to him. 2 And everyone who was in distress, everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was discontented resorted to him, and he became a captain over them. And there were with him about four hundred men.

3 And David went from there to Mizpeh of Moab. And he said to the king of Moab, "Let my father and my mother, I pray you, come forth and be with you until I know what God will do for me." 4 And he brought them before the king of Moab. And they dwelt with him all the while that David was in the hold. 5 And the prophet Gad said to David, "Do not abide in the hold. Depart, and come into the land of Judah." Then David departed and came into the forest of Hareth.

6 When Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men who were with him (now Saul stayed in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing around him), 7 Saul said to his servants who stood around him, "Hear now, you Benjaminites. Will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards and make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds? 8 For all of you have conspired against me. And there is no one who shows me that my son has made a league with the son of Jesse, and there is not one of you who is sorry for me, or shows to me that my son has stirred up my servant against me to lie in wait, as at this day." 9 Then Doeg the Edomite, who was set over the servants of Saul, answered and said, "I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub. 10 And he inquired of the LORD for him, gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine."

11 Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests who were in Nob. And all of them came to the king. 12 And Saul said, "Hear now, son of Ahitub." And he answered, "Here I am, my lord." 13 And Saul said to him, "Why have you conspired against me—you and the son of Jesse—in that you have given him bread and a sword and have inquired of God for him so that he should rise against me to lie in wait, as at this day?"

14 Then Ahimelech answered the king and said, "And who is so faithful among all your servants as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and goes at your bidding and is honorable in your house? 15 Did I then begin to inquire of God for him? Be it far from me. Do not let the king impute anything to his servant, nor to all the house of my father, for your servant knew nothing of the least of all of this." 16 And the king said, "You shall surely die, Ahimelech—you and all your father's house." 17 And the king said to the footmen who stood around him, "Turn, and slay the priests of the LORD because their hand is also with David and because they knew when he fled and did not disclose it to me." But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of the LORD. 18 And the king said to Doeg, "Turn, and fall upon the priests." And Doeg the Edomite turned and he fell upon the priests and slew on that day eighty-five persons who wore a linen ephod. 19 And Nob, the city of the priests, he smote with the edge of the sword—both men and women, children and infants, oxen, donkeys, and sheep, all with the edge of the sword.

20 And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped and fled after David. 21 And Abiathar reported to David that Saul had slain the LORD'S priests. 22 And David said to Abiathar, "I knew that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul. I have occasioned the death of all the persons of your father's house. 23 Abide with me. Do not fear, for he who seeks my life seeks your life. But with me you shall be in safeguard."

[#fsa023%breakable]
=== Chapter 23

[.outline.text-center]
_David, inquiring of the Lord by Abiathar, rescues Keilah, 1-6. After God tells him about the coming of Saul and the treachery of the Keilites, he escapes from Keilah, 7-13. In Ziph, Jonathan comes and comforts him, 14-18. The Ziphites reveal him to Saul, 19-24. At Maon, he is rescued from Saul by the invasion of the Philistines, 25-28. He dwells at En-gedi, 29._

1 Then they told David, saying, "Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah and they rob the threshing-floors." 2 Therefore, David inquired of the LORD, saying, "Shall I go and smite these Philistines?" And the LORD said to David, "Go, smite the Philistines and save Keilah." 3 And David's men said to him, "Behold, we are afraid here in Judah. How much more then if we come to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?" 4 Then David inquired of the LORD yet again. And the LORD answered him and said, "Arise, go down to Keilah, for I will deliver the Philistines into your hand." 5 So David and his men went to Keilah, fought with the Philistines, brought away their livestock, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.

6 And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David at Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand. 7 And it was told to Saul that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, "God has delivered him into my hand, for he is shut in by entering into a town that has gates and bars." 8 And Saul called all the people together to war to go down to Keilah and to besiege David and his men. 9 And David knew that Saul secretly plotted mischief against him. And he said to Abiathar the priest, "Bring the ephod here." 10 Then David said, "O LORD God of Israel, your servant has certainly heard that Saul seeks to come to Keilah to destroy the city for my sake. 11 Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? Will Saul come down as your servant has heard? O LORD God of Israel, I implore you, tell your servant." And the LORD said, "He will come down." 12 Then David said, "Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul?" And the LORD said, "They will deliver you up." 13 Then David and his men who were about six hundred arose and departed from Keilah and went wherever they could go. And it was told to Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, and he forbore to go forth. 14 And David stayed in the wilderness in strongholds and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand.

15 And David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. And David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a forest. 16 And Jonathan, Saul's son, arose and went to David in the forest and strengthened his hand in God. 17 And he said to him, "Do not fear, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find you. And you will be king over Israel, and I shall be next to you. And Saul, my father, also knows that." 18 And the two of them made a covenant before the LORD. And David stayed in the forest, and Jonathan went to his house.

19 Then the Ziphites came up to Saul at Gibeah, saying, "Does David not hide himself with us in strongholds in the forest, in the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of Jeshimon? 20 Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of your soul to come down, and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand." 21 And Saul said, "Blessed are you of the LORD, for you have compassion on me. 22 Go, I pray you, prepare further, and know and see his place where his haunt is and who has seen him there, for it is told to me that he deals very subtly. 23 See therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking-places where he hides himself and come back to me with the certainty, and I will go with you. And it shall come to pass, if he is in the land, that I will search him out throughout all the thousands of Judah."

24 And they arose and went to Ziph before Saul, but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of Jeshimon. 25 Saul and his men also went to seek him. And they told David. Therefore, he came down into a rock and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon. 26 And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain. And David made haste to get away for fear of Saul, for Saul and his men surrounded David and his men to take them. 27 But there came a messenger to Saul, saying, "Make haste and come, for the Philistines have invaded the land." 28 Therefore, Saul returned from pursuing after David and went against the Philistines. Therefore, they called that place Sela-hammah-lekoth. 29 Then David went up from there and dwelt in strongholds at En-gedi.

[#fsa024%breakable]
=== Chapter 24

[.outline.text-center]
_David, in a cave at En-gedi, having cut off Saul's skirt, spares his life, 1-7. He shows thereby his innocence, 8-15. Saul, acknowledging his fault, binds David with an oath and departs, 16-22._

1 And it came to pass, when Saul had returned from following the Philistines, that it was told to him, saying, "Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi." 2 Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats. 3 And he came to the sheep-folds by the way, where there was a cave, and Saul went in to cover his feet. And David and his men remained in the innermost parts of the cave. 4 And the men of David said to him, "Behold the day of which the LORD said to you, 'Behold, I will deliver your enemy into your hand so that you may do to him as it shall seem good to you.'" Then David arose and privately cut off the skirt of Saul's robe. 5 And it came to pass afterward, that David's heart smote him because he had cut off Saul's skirt. 6 And he said to his men, "The LORD forbid that I should do this thing to my master, the LORD'S anointed, to stretch forth my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of the LORD." 7 So David restrained his servants with these words and did not allow them to rise against Saul. But Saul rose out of the cave and went on his way.

8 David also rose afterward, went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, "My lord the king." And when Saul looked behind him, David stooped with his face to the earth and bowed himself. 9 And David said to Saul, "Why do you hear men's words, saying, 'Behold, David seeks your hurt?' 10 Behold, this day your eyes have seen how the LORD has delivered you today into my hand in the cave. And some told me to kill you, but my eye spared you. And I said, 'I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for he is the LORD'S anointed.' 11 Moreover, my father, look. Look at the skirt of your robe in my hand. For in that I cut off the skirt of your robe and did not kill you, know and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand. I have not sinned against you, yet you hunt my soul to take it. 12 May the LORD judge between you and me, and may the LORD avenge me of you. But my hand shall not be upon you. 13 As the proverb of the ancients says, 'Wickedness proceeds from the wicked.' But my hand shall not be upon you. 14 After whom has the king of Israel come out? After whom do you pursue? After a dead dog? After a flea? 15 May the LORD therefore be judge and judge between you and me, and see and plead my cause and deliver me out of your hand."

16 And it came to pass when David had made an end of speaking these words to Saul, that Saul said, "Is this your voice, my son David?" And Saul lifted up his voice and wept. 17 And he said to David, "You are more righteous than I am, for you have rewarded me with good, whereas I have rewarded you with evil. 18 And you have shown this day how you have dealt with me, because when the LORD had delivered me into your hand, you did not kill me. 19 For if a man finds his enemy, will he let him go away well? Therefore, may the LORD reward you with good for what you have done to me this day. 20 And now, behold, I know well that you will surely be king and that the kingdom of Israel will be established in your hand. 21 Swear now therefore to me by the LORD that you will not cut off my offspring after me and that you will not destroy my name out of my father's house." 22 And David swore to Saul. And Saul went home, but David and his men went up to the hold.

[#fsa025%breakable]
=== Chapter 25

[.outline.text-center]
_Samuel dies, 1. David, in Paran, sends to Nabal, 2-9. Provoked by Nabal's churlishness, he minds to destroy him, 10-13. When this is revealed to Abigail, 14-17, she takes a present, 18-22; and by her wisdom, 23-31, pacifies David, 32-35. After Nabal hears about this, he dies, 36-38. David takes Abigail and Ahinoam to be his wives, 39-43. Michal is given to Phalti, 44._

1 And Samuel died. And all the Israelites assembled, lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran.

2 And there was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel. And the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and one thousand goats. And he was shearing his sheep in Carmel. 3 Now the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail. And she was a woman of good understanding and of a beautiful countenance, but the man was churlish and evil in his doings. And he was of the house of Caleb. 4 And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep. 5 And David sent ten young men, and David said to the young men, "Go up to Carmel, go to Nabal, and greet him in my name. 6 And thus you shall say to him who lives in prosperity: 'Peace be with you, and peace be with your house, and peace be with all that you have. 7 And now I have heard that you have shearers. Now your shepherds who were with us, we did not hurt them, neither was there anything missing to them all the while they were in Carmel. 8 Ask your young men and they will show you. Therefore, let the young men find favor in your eyes, for we come in a good day. Give, I pray you, whatever comes to your hand to your servants and to your son David.'"

9 And when David's young men came, they spoke to Nabal in the name of David according to all these words and ceased. 10 And Nabal answered David's servants and said, "Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? There are many servants in these days that each break away from his master. 11 Shall I then take my bread, my water, and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers and give it to men whom I do not know where they are from?" 12 So David's young men turned their way, went back, and came and told him all these sayings. 13 And David said to his men, "Each of you gird on his sword." And they each girded on his sword. And David also girded on his sword. And about four hundred men went up after David, and two hundred stayed by the goods.

14 But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, "Behold, David sent messengers from the wilderness to salute our master, and he railed at them. 15 But the men were very good to us, and we were not hurt, neither did we miss anything as long as we were conversant with them when we were in the fields. 16 They were a wall to us both by night and day all the while we were with them keeping the sheep. 17 Now therefore, know and consider what you will do, for evil is determined against our master and against all his household. For he is such a son of Belial that a man cannot speak to him."

[[fsa025-018]]18 Then Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves, two bottles of wine, five sheep ready and dressed, five measures of parched grain, one hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on donkeys. 19 And she said to her servants, "Go on before me. Behold, I am coming after you." But she did not tell her husband Nabal. 20 And it was so, as she rode on the donkey, that she came down by the covert of the hill, and behold, David and his men came down over against her, and she met them. 21 (Now David had said, "Surely in vain I have kept all that this man has in the wilderness so that nothing was missed of all that pertained to him, and he has requited me evil for good. 22 May God do so and more also to the enemies of David if I leave of all that pertain to him by the morning light any male person.")

23 And when Abigail saw David, she hastened, alighted off the donkey, fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground. 24 And she fell at his feet and said, "Upon me, my lord, upon me let this iniquity be. And let your servant, I pray you, speak in your audience, and hear the words of your servant. 25 Do not let my lord, I pray you, regard this man of Belial, even Nabal, for as his name is, so he is. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him. But I, your servant, did not see the young men of my lord whom you sent.

26 "Now therefore, my lord, as the LORD lives and as your soul lives, seeing the LORD has withheld you from coming to shed blood and from avenging yourself with your own hand, now let your enemies and those who seek evil to my lord be as Nabal. 27 And now this blessing which your servant has brought to my lord, let it even be given to the young men who follow my lord. 28 I pray you, forgive the trespass of your servant, for the LORD will certainly make my lord a sure house because my lord fights the battles of the LORD, and evil has not been found in you all your days. 29 Yet a man has risen to pursue you and to seek your soul, but the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with the LORD your God. And the souls of your enemies, he shall sling them out, as from the middle of a sling. 30 And it will come to pass, when the LORD has done to my lord according to all the good that he has spoken concerning you and has appointed you ruler over Israel, 31 That this will be no grief to you, nor offense of heart to my lord, either that you have shed blood without cause, or that my lord has avenged himself. But when the LORD has dealt well with my lord, remember your servant."

32 And David said to Abigail, "Blessed be the LORD God of Israel who sent you this day to meet me. 33 And blessed is your discretion, and blessed are you who have kept me this day from coming to shed blood and from avenging myself with my own hand. 34 For indeed, as the LORD God of Israel lives, who has kept me back from hurting you, unless you had hastened and come to meet me, surely there had not been left to Nabal by the morning light any male person." 35 So David received from her hand that which she had brought him and said to her, "Return in peace to your house. Behold, I have listened to your voice and have accepted your person."

36 And Abigail came to Nabal, and behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. And Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunken. Therefore, she told him nothing at all until the morning light. 37 But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine had left Nabal and his wife had told him these things, that his heart died within him and he became as a stone. 38 And it came to pass about ten days after, that the LORD smote Nabal so that he died.

39 And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, "Blessed be the LORD who has pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal and has kept his servant from evil, for the LORD has returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head." And David sent and spoke with Abigail to take her for himself for a wife. 40 And when the servants of David had come to Abigail at Carmel, they spoke to her, saying, "David has sent us to you to take you to him for a wife." 41 And she arose and bowed herself on her face to the earth and said, "Behold, let your servant be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord." 42 And Abigail hastened, arose, and rode upon a donkey, with five of her attendants who went after her. And she went after the messengers of David and became his wife.

43 David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel, and the both of them were his wives.

44 But Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Phalti the son of Laish, who was of Gallim.

[#fsa026%breakable]
=== Chapter 26

[.outline.text-center]
_Saul, by the discovery of the Ziphites, comes to Hachilah against David, 1-3. David, coming into the trench, prevents Abishai from killing Saul, but takes his spear and cruse, 4-12. David reproves Abner, 13-16; and exhorts Saul, 17-20. Saul acknowledges his sin, 21-25._

1 And the Ziphites came to Saul to Gibeah, saying, "Does David not hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon?" 2 Then Saul arose and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph. 3 And Saul pitched by the road on the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon. But David stayed in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness. 4 David therefore sent out spies and understood that Saul had indeed come. 5 And David arose and came to the place where Saul had encamped. And David beheld the place where Saul lay, along with Abner, the son of Ner, the captain of his host. And Saul lay in the trench and the people pitched around him.

6 Then David answered and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, brother to Joab, saying, "Who will go down with me to Saul in the camp?" And Abishai said, "I will go down with you." 7 So David and Abishai came to the people by night, and behold, Saul lay sleeping within the trench and his spear stuck in the ground at his bolster, but Abner and the people lay around him. 8 Then Abishai said to David, "God has delivered your enemy into your hand this day. Now therefore, let me smite him, I pray you, with the spear, even to the earth at once, and I will not smite him the second time." 9 And David said to Abishai, "Do not destroy him. For who can stretch forth his hand against the LORD'S anointed and be guiltless?" 10 David said furthermore, "As the LORD lives, the LORD will smite him, or his day will come to die, or he will descend into battle and perish. 11 The LORD forbid that I should stretch forth my hand against the LORD'S anointed. But now, I pray you, take the spear that is at his bolster and the cruse of water and let us go." 12 So David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul's bolster, and they departed, and no man saw it, nor knew it, neither awakened, for they were all asleep because a deep sleep from the LORD had fallen upon them.

13 Then David went over to the other side and stood on the top of a hill afar off, a great space being between them. 14 And David cried to the people and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, "Do you not answer, Abner?" Then Abner answered and said, "Who are you who cries to the king?" 15 And David said to Abner, "Are you not a valiant man? And who is like you in Israel? Why then have you not kept your lord the king? For there came in one of the people to destroy the king your lord. 16 This thing is not good that you have done. As the LORD lives, you are worthy to die because you have not kept your master, the LORD'S anointed. And now see where the king's spear is, and the cruse of water that was at his bolster."

17 And Saul knew David's voice and said, "Is this your voice, my son David?" And David said, "It is my voice, my lord, O king." 18 And he said, "Why does my lord thus pursue his servant? For what have I done? Or what evil is in my hand? 19 Now therefore, I pray you, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If the LORD has stirred you up against me, let him accept an offering, but if they are the children of men, they are cursed before the LORD, for they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of the LORD, saying, 'Go, serve other gods.' 20 Now therefore, do not let my blood fall to the earth before the face of the LORD, for the king of Israel has come out to seek a flea, as when one hunts a partridge in the mountains."

21 Then Saul said, "I have sinned. Return, my son David, for I will no longer do you harm because my soul was precious in your eyes this day. Behold I have played the fool and have erred exceedingly." 22 And David answered and said, "Behold the king's spear! And let one of the young men come over and take it. 23 May the LORD render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness, for the LORD delivered you into my hand today, but I would not stretch forth my hand against the LORD'S anointed. 24 And behold, as your life was precious this day in my eyes, so let my life be precious in the eyes of the LORD, and let him deliver me out of all tribulation." 25 Then Saul said to David, "Blessed are you, my son David. You shall both do great things and also shall still prevail." So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.

[#fsa027%breakable]
=== Chapter 27

[.outline.text-center]
_Saul, hearing David to be in Gath, no longer seeks for him, 1-4. David asks Achish for Ziklag, 5-7. He, invading other countries, persuades Achish he fought against Judah, 8-12._

1 And David said in his heart, "I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than that I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines. And Saul will despair of seeking for me anymore in any border of Israel, and I shall escape from his hand." 2 And David arose and he passed over with the six hundred men who were with him to Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath. 3 And David dwelt with Achish at Gath—he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife. 4 And it was told to Saul that David had fled to Gath. And he no longer sought for him again.

5 And David said to Achish, "If I have now found grace in your eyes, let them give me a place in some town in the country so that I may dwell there. For why should your servant dwell in the royal city with you?" 6 Then Achish gave him Ziklag that day. Therefore, Ziklag pertains to the kings of Judah to this day. 7 And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months.

8 And David and his men went up and invaded the Geshurites, the Gezrites, and the Amalekites, for those nations were of old the inhabitants of the land, as far as to Shur, even to the land of Egypt. 9 And David smote the land and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, the oxen, the donkeys, the camels, and the apparel, and returned and came to Achish. 10 And Achish said, "Where have you made a road today?" And David said, "Against the south of Judah, against the south of the Jerahmeelites, and against the south of the Kenites." 11 And David saved neither man nor woman alive to bring tidings to Gath, saying, "Lest they should inform against us, saying, 'Thus David did, and so will be his manner all the time he dwells in the country of the Philistines.'" 12 And Achish believed David, saying, "He has made himself utterly abhorred among his people in Israel; therefore, he shall be my servant forever."

[#fsa028%breakable]
=== Chapter 28

[.outline.text-center]
_Achish puts confidence in David, 1, 2. Saul, having destroyed the witches, 3, and now in his fear is forsaken by God, 4-6, has recourse to a witch, 7; who, encouraged by Saul, raises up Samuel, 8-14. Saul, hearing his ruin, faints, 15-20. The woman and his servants refresh him with meat, 21-25._

1 And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines collected their armies for warfare to fight with Israel. And Achish said to David, "Know assuredly that you shall go out with me to battle—you and your men." 2 And David said to Achish, "Surely you shall know what your servant can do." And Achish said to David, "Therefore, I will make you keeper of my head forever."

3 Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away those who had familiar spirits and the wizards out of the land. 4 And the Philistines assembled and came and encamped in Shunem. And Saul collected all Israel and they encamped in Gilboa. 5 And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid and his heart greatly trembled. 6 And when Saul inquired of the LORD, the LORD did not answer him, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets. 7 Then Saul said to his servants, "Seek me a woman who has a familiar spirit so that I may go to her and inquire of her." And his servants said to him, "Behold, there is a woman who has a familiar spirit at En-dor."

8 And Saul disguised himself and put on other clothing, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. And he said, "I pray you, divine to me by the familiar spirit and bring up for me whom I shall name to you." 9 And the woman said to him, "Behold, you know what Saul has done, how he has cut off those who have familiar spirits and the wizards out of the land. Why then do you lay a snare for my life to cause me to die?" 10 And Saul swore to her by the LORD, saying, "As the LORD lives, no punishment shall happen to you for this thing." 11 Then the woman said, "Whom shall I bring up to you?" And he said, "Bring me up Samuel." 12 And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice. And the woman spoke to Saul, saying, "Why have you deceived me? For you are Saul." 13 And the king said to her, "Do not be afraid. What did you see?" And the woman said to Saul, "I saw a celestial being ascending out of the earth." 14 And he said to her, "What is his form?" And she said, "An old man comes up, and he is covered with a mantle." And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground and bowed himself.

15 And Samuel said to Saul, "Why have you disquieted me to bring me up?" And Saul answered, "I am grievously distressed, for the Philistines make war against me, and God has departed from me and no longer answers me, neither by prophets, nor by dreams. Therefore, I have called you so that you may make known to me what I shall do." 16 Then Samuel said, "Why then do you ask of me, seeing the LORD has departed from you and has become your enemy? 17 And the LORD has done to him, as he spoke by me, for the LORD has rent the kingdom out of your hand and given it to your neighbor, even to David. 18 Because you did not obey the voice of the LORD, nor execute his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore the LORD has done this thing to you this day. 19 Moreover, the LORD will also deliver Israel with you into the hand of the Philistines. And tomorrow you and your sons shall be with me. The LORD also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines."

20 Then Saul immediately fell his full length on the earth and was exceedingly afraid because of the words of Samuel. And there was no strength in him, for he had eaten no bread all day, nor all night. 21 And the woman came to Saul and saw that he was greatly troubled and said to him, "Behold, your servant has obeyed your voice. And I have put my life in my hand and have listened to your words which you spoke. 22 Now therefore, I pray you, listen also to the voice of your servant and let me set a morsel of bread before you. And eat so that you may have strength when you go on your way." 23 But he refused and said, "I will not eat." But his servants, together with the woman, compelled him, and he listened to their voice. So he arose from the earth and sat upon the bed. 24 And the woman had a fattened calf in the house and she hastened and killed it, and took flour, kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread from it. 25 And she brought it before Saul and before his servants, and they ate. Then they arose and went away that night.

[#fsa029%breakable]
=== Chapter 29

[.outline.text-center]
_David, marching with the Philistines, 1, 2, is disallowed by their princes, 3-5. Achish dismisses him with commendations of his fidelity, 6-11._

1 Now the Philistines collected all their armies at Aphek. And the Israelites encamped by a fountain which is in Jezreel. 2 And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds and by thousands, but David and his men passed on in the rear with Achish. 3 Then the princes of the Philistines said, "What are these Hebrews doing here?" And Achish said to the princes of the Philistines, "Is this not David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who has been with me these days, or rather these years? I have found no fault in him since he fell to me to this day." 4 And the princes of the Philistines were angry with him. And the princes of the Philistines said to him, "Make this man return so that he may go back to his place which you have appointed him, and do not let him go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he should be an adversary to us. For with what would he reconcile himself to his master? Would it not be with the heads of these men? 5 Is this not David, of whom they sang to one another in dances, saying,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|'Saul slew his thousands, [.linebr]#/# +
and David his tens of thousands'?"
|===

6 Then Achish called David and said to him, "Surely, as the LORD lives, you have been upright, and your going out and your coming in with me in the host is good in my sight. For I have not found evil in you from the day of your coming to me to this day. Nevertheless, the lords do not favor you. 7 Now therefore, return and go in peace so that you do not displease the lords of the Philistines." 8 And David said to Achish, "But what have I done? And what have you found in your servant from the day that I have been with you to this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?" 9 And Achish answered and said to David, "I know that you are good in my sight, as an angel of God. Nevertheless, the princes of the Philistines have said, 'He shall not go up with us to the battle.' 10 Now therefore, rise early in the morning with your master's servants who have come with you. And as soon as you have risen early in the morning and have light, depart." 11 So David and his men rose early to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.

[#fsa030%breakable]
=== Chapter 30

[.outline.text-center]
_The Amalekites plunder Ziklag, 1-3. David, asking counsel, is encouraged by God to pursue them, 4-10. By the means of a revived Egyptian, he is brought to the enemies and recovers all the plunder, 11-21. David's law to divide the plunder equally between those who fight and those who keep the stuff, 22-25. He sends presents to his friends, 26-31._

1 And it came to pass, when David and his men had come to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had invaded the south and Ziklag, smitten Ziklag, and burned it with fire, 2 And had taken the women captive who were in it. They did not slay any, either great or small, but carried them away and went on their way. 3 So David and his men came to the city, and behold, it was burned with fire, and their wives, their sons, and their daughters were taken captive. 4 Then David and the people who were with him lifted up their voice and wept until they had no more power to weep. 5 And David's two wives were taken captive—Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite. 6 And David was greatly distressed, for the people spoke of stoning him because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters, but David encouraged himself in the LORD his God.

7 And David said to Abiathar the priest, Ahimelech's son, "I pray you, bring the ephod here to me." And Abiathar brought the ephod there to David. 8 And David inquired of the LORD, saying, "Shall I pursue this troop? Shall I overtake them?" And he answered him, "Pursue, for you shall surely overtake them and without fail recover all." 9 So David went—he and the six hundred men who were with him—and came to the brook Besor, where those who were left behind remained. 10 But David pursued—he and four hundred men—while two hundred stayed behind, who were so faint that they could not go over the brook of Besor.

11 And they found an Egyptian in the field and brought him to David. And they gave him bread, and he ate, and they made him drink water. [[fsa030-012]]12 And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs and two clusters of raisins. And when he had eaten, his spirit came back to him, for he had eaten no bread nor drank any water for three days and three nights. 13 And David said to him, "To whom do you belong? And where are you from?" And he said, "I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite, and my master left me because three days ago I fell sick. 14 We made an invasion upon the south of the Cherethites, and upon the land which belongs to Judah, and upon the south of Caleb, and we burned Ziklag with fire." 15 And David said to him, "Can you conduct me down to this company?" And he said, "Swear to me by God that you will neither kill me nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will lead you down to this company."

16 And when he had conducted him down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, eating, drinking, and dancing, because of all the great plunder that they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah. 17 And David smote them from the twilight even to the evening of the next day. And there did not escape a man of them, except four hundred young men, who rode upon camels and fled. 18 And David recovered all that the Amalekites had carried away. And David rescued his two wives. 19 And there was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither plunder, nor anything that they had taken to them. David recovered all. 20 And David took all the flocks and the herds which they drove before those other livestock and said, "This is David's plunder."

21 And David came to the two hundred men who were so faint that they could not follow David, whom they had made also to abide at the brook of Besor. And they went forth to meet David and to meet the people who were with him. And when David came near to the people, he saluted them. 22 Then all the wicked men and men of Belial among those who went with David answered and said, "Because they did not go with us, we will not give them anything of the plunder that we have recovered, except to every man his wife and his children so that they may lead them away and depart." 23 Then David said, "You shall not do so, my brothers, with that which the LORD has given us, who has preserved us and delivered the company that came against us into our hand. 24 For who will listen to you in this matter? But as his part is who goes down to the battle, so shall his part be who remains by the goods. They shall share alike." 25 And it was so from that day forward, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel to this day.

26 And when David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the plunder to the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, "Behold, a present for you from the plunder of the enemies of the LORD"— 27 To those who were in Beth-el, to those who were in south Ramoth, to those who were in Jattir, 28 To those who were in Aroer, to those who were in Siphmoth, to those who were in Eshtemoa, 29 To those who were in Rachal, to those who were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, to those who were in the cities of the Kenites, 30 To those who were in Hormah, to those who were in Chor-ashan, to those who were in Athach, 31 To those who were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men were accustomed to resort.

[#fsa031%breakable]
=== Chapter 31

[.outline.text-center]
_Having lost his army and his sons slain, Saul and his armor-bearer kill themselves, 1-6. The Philistines possess the forsaken towns of the Israelites, 7. They triumph over the dead carcasses, 8-10. Those of Jabesh-gilead, recovering the dead bodies by night, burn them at Jabesh and mournfully bury their bones, 11-13._

1 Now the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines and fell down slain on mount Gilboa. 2 And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons, and the Philistines slew Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, Saul's sons. 3 And the battle was severe against Saul, and the archers hit him, and he was severely wounded by the archers. 4 Then Saul said to his armor-bearer, "Draw your sword and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised should come and thrust me through and abuse me." But his armor-bearer would not, for he was exceedingly afraid. Therefore, Saul took a sword and fell upon it. 5 And when his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell likewise upon his sword and died with him. 6 So Saul, his three sons, his armor-bearer, and all his men died that same day together.

7 And when the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley and those who were on the other side of the Jordan saw that the men of Israel fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities and fled. And the Philistines came and dwelt in them.

8 And it came to pass on the next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen on mount Gilboa. 9 And they cut off his head, stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines all around to publish it in the house of their idols and among the people. 10 And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth and fastened his body to the wall of Beth-shan. 11 And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard of that which the Philistines had done to Saul, 12 All the valiant men arose and went all night, took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh and burnt them there. 13 And they took their bones and buried them under a tree at Jabesh and fasted seven days.

[.text-center]
_[Tanach reading: go to xref:#second-samuel[Second Samuel]]_
