////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#first-thessalonians]
== Paul's First Letter to the Thessalonians

*1st Thessalonians | Προς Θεσσαλονικείς Α'*

[#fth001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_The Thessalonians are given to understand both how mindful of them Paul was at all times in thanksgiving and prayer, 1-4; and also how well he was persuaded of the truth and sincerity of their faith and conversion to God, 5-10._

1 Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy, to the church of the Thessalonians which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

2 We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers, 3 Remembering without ceasing your work of faith, labor of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of God and our Father, 4 Knowing, brothers beloved by God, your election. 5 For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance, as you know what manner of men we were among you for your sake. 6 And you became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy from the Holy Spirit, 7 So that you were examples to all who believe in Macedonia and Achaia. 8 For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith toward God is spread abroad so that we do not need to speak anything. 9 For they themselves report concerning us what manner of entering in we had to you and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God, 10 And to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus who delivered us from the wrath to come.

[#fth002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_In what manner the gospel was brought and preached to the Thessalonians and in what sort also they received it, 1-17. A reason is rendered both why Paul was so long absent from them and also why he was so desirous to see them, 18-20._

1 For you yourselves, brothers, know our entering in to you, that it was not in vain. 2 But even after we had suffered before and were shamefully treated at Phillippi, as you know, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God with much contention. 3 For our exhortation was not from deceit, nor from impurity, nor in guile, 4 But as we were allowed by God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God, who tries our hearts. 5 For neither at any time did we use flattering words, as you know, nor a cloak of covetousness (God is witness), 6 Nor from men did we seek glory, neither from you, nor yet from others, when we might have asserted authority as the apostles of Christ. 7 But we were gentle among you, even as a nursing mother cherishes her children. 8 So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted to you, not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls, because you were dear to us.

9 For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil, how, laboring night and day so that we would not be chargeable to any of you, we preached to you the gospel of God. 10 You are witnesses, and God also, how holy, justly, and blamelessly we behaved ourselves among you who believe, 11 As you know how we exhorted, comforted, and charged each of you, as a father does his children, 12 That you would walk worthy of God, who has called you into his kingdom and glory.

13 For this cause we also thank God without ceasing, because, when you received the word of God which you heard from us, you did not receive it as the word of men, but (as it is in truth) the word of God, which effectually works also in you who believe. 14 For you, brothers, became followers of the churches of God which in Judea are in Christ Jesus. For you also have suffered similar things from your own countrymen, even as they have from the Jews, 15 Who killed both the Lord Jesus and their own prophets and have persecuted us. And they do not please God and are contrary to all men, 16 Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles so that they may be saved—so as to always fill up the measure of their sins. But the wrath has come upon them to the uttermost.

17 But we, brothers, being taken from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavored the more abundantly to see your face with great desire. 18 Therefore, we would have come to you, even I, Paul, once and again, but Satan hindered us. 19 For what is our hope, joy, or crown of rejoicing? Is it not even you, in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? 20 For you are our glory and joy.

[#fth003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_Paul testifies his great love to the Thessalonians, partly by sending Timothy to them to strengthen and comfort them; partly by rejoicing in their well doing, 1-9; and partly by praying for them and desiring a safe coming to them, 10-13._

1 Therefore, when we could no longer forbear, we thought it good to be left at Athens alone, 2 And sent Timothy, our brother and minister of God and our fellow-laborer in the gospel of Christ, to establish you and to comfort you concerning your faith, 3 So that no man should be moved by these afflictions. For you yourselves know that we are appointed to it. 4 For truly, when we were with you, we told you before that we should suffer tribulation, even as it came to pass, and you know. 5 For this cause, when I could no longer forbear, I sent to know your faith, lest by some means the tempter may have tempted you and our labor be in vain.

6 But now when Timothy came from you to us and brought us good tidings of your faith and charity and that you have good remembrance of us always, desiring greatly to see us, as we also to see you, 7 Therefore, brothers, by your faith we were comforted over you in all our affliction and distress. 8 For now we live, if you stand firm in the Lord. 9 For what thanks can we render to God again for you for all the joy with which we rejoice for your sakes before our God, 10 Night and day praying exceedingly that we may see your face and may perfect that which is lacking in your faith?

11 Now may our God and Father himself and our Lord Jesus Christ direct our way to you. 12 And may the Lord make you to increase and abound in love toward one another and toward all men, even as we do toward you, 13 To the end he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before God, even our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints.

[#fth004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_Paul exhorts them to go forward in all manner of godliness, 1-5; to live in holiness and justly, 6-8; to love one another, 9, 10; and quietly to follow their own business, 11, 12; and last of all, to sorrow moderately for the dead, 13-16. And to this last exhortation is annexed a brief description of the resurrection and second coming of Christ to judgment, 17, 18._

1 Furthermore then, we implore you, brothers, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus, that as you have received from us how you ought to walk and to please God, so you would abound more and more. 2 For you know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus. 3 For this is the will of God, even your sanctification: that you should abstain from lewdness; 4 That each of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor, 5 Not in the lust of concupiscence, even as the Gentiles who do not know God; 6 And that no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter, because the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we also have forewarned you and testified. 7 For God has not called us to uncleanness, but to holiness. 8 He therefore who despises, does not despise man, but God, who has also given to us his Holy Spirit.

9 But concerning brotherly love, you do not need that I write to you, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another. 10 And indeed you do it toward all the brothers who are in all Macedonia. But we implore you, brothers, that you increase more and more, 11 And that you make it your ambition to be quiet, to do your own business, and to work with your own hands, as we commanded you, 12 So that you may walk honestly toward those who are outside and that you may have need of nothing.

13 But I do not wish to have you to be ignorant, brothers, concerning those who are asleep, so that you do not sorrow, even as others who have no hope. 14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so those also who sleep in Jesus, God will bring with him. 15 For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain to the coming of the Lord shall not precede those who are asleep. 16 For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. 17 Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And thus we shall always be with the Lord. 18 Therefore, comfort one another with these words.

[#fth005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_Paul proceeds in the former description of Christ's coming to judgment, 1-15; and gives various precepts, 16-22; and then concludes the epistle, 23-28._

1 But of the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need that I write to you. 2 For you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord comes even as a thief in the night. 3 For when they say, "Peace and safety," then sudden destruction comes upon them, as travail upon a woman with child, and they shall not escape. 4 But you, brothers, are not in darkness so that the day should overtake you as a thief. 5 You are all children of light and children of the day. We are not of the night, nor of darkness. 6 Therefore, let us not sleep as others do, but let us watch and be sober. 7 For those who sleep, sleep in the night, and those who are drunken, are drunken in the night. 8 But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breast-plate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. 9 For God has not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ, 10 Who died for us, so that whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him. 11 Therefore, comfort yourselves together and edify one another, even as you also do.

12 And we implore you, brothers, to regard those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you, 13 And to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. And be at peace among yourselves. 14 Now we exhort you, brothers, warn those who are disorderly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, and be patient toward all men. 15 See that no one renders evil for evil to any man, but always follow that which is good, both among yourselves and to all men. 16 Rejoice evermore. 17 Pray without ceasing. 18 In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. 19 Do not quench the Spirit. 20 Do not despise prophesyings. 21 Prove all things. Hold firmly to that which is good. 22 Abstain from all appearance of evil.

23 And may the very God of peace sanctify you wholly. And may your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 24 Faithful is he who calls you, who also will do it.

25 Brothers, pray for us.

26 Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. 27 I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read to all the holy brothers.

28 May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
