////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#second-chronicles]
== The Second Book of the Chronicles

*2nd Chronicles | Παραλειπομένων Β' | דברי הימים ב*

[#sch001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_The solemn offering of Solomon at Gibeon, 1-6. Solomon's choice of wisdom is blessed by God, 7-12. Solomon's forces and wealth, 13-17._

1 And Solomon the son of David was strengthened in his kingdom, and the LORD his God was with him and magnified him exceedingly.

2 Then Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the captains of thousands and of hundreds, to the judges, and to every governor in all Israel, the chief of the fathers. 3 So Solomon and all the congregation with him went to the high place that was at Gibeon, for the Tabernacle of the Congregation of God was there, which Moses the servant of the LORD had made in the wilderness. 4 But David had brought up the ark of God from Kirjath-jearim to the place which David had prepared for it, for he had pitched a tent for it at Jerusalem. 5 Moreover, the brazen altar that Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made, he put before the tabernacle of the LORD. And Solomon and the congregation sought it out. 6 And Solomon went up there to the brazen altar before the LORD, which was at the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and offered one thousand burnt-offerings upon it.

7 In that night God appeared to Solomon and said to him, "Ask what I shall give you."

8 And Solomon said to God, "You have shown great mercy to David my father and have made me to reign in his stead. 9 Now, O LORD God, let your promise to David my father be established, for you have made me king over a people like the dust of the earth in multitude. 10 Now give me wisdom and knowledge so that I may go out and come in before this people. For who can judge this your great people?" 11 And God said to Solomon, "Because this was in your heart and you have not asked riches, wealth, or honor, nor the life of your enemies, neither yet have asked for long life, but have asked wisdom and knowledge for yourself so that you may judge my people, over whom I have made you king, 12 Wisdom and knowledge are granted to you. And I will give you riches, wealth, and honor, such as none of the kings have had who have been before you, neither shall there any after you have the like." 13 Then Solomon came from his journey to the high place that was at Gibeon to Jerusalem, from before the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and reigned over Israel.

14 And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen. And he had one thousand and four hundred chariots and twelve thousand horsemen, which he placed in the chariot cities and with the king at Jerusalem. 15 And the king made silver and gold at Jerusalem as plenteous as stones, and cedar trees he made as the sycamore trees that are in the valley for abundance. 16 And Solomon had horses brought from Egypt and from Keveh. The king's merchants received from Keveh at a price. 17 And they fetched up and brought out of Egypt a chariot for six hundred shekels of silver and a horse for one hundred and fifty. And so they brought out horses for all the kings of the Hittites and for the kings of Syria by their means.

[#sch002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_Solomon's laborers for the building of the temple, 1, 2, 17, 18. His sending to Huram for workmen and provision of stuff, 3-10. Huram sends him a kind answer, 11-16._

1 And Solomon determined to build a house for the name of the LORD and a house for his kingdom. 2 And Solomon numbered out seventy thousand men to bear burdens, eighty thousand to hew in the mountain, and three thousand and six hundred to oversee them.

3 And Solomon sent to Huram the king of Tyre, saying, "As you dealt with David my father and sent him cedars to build him a house to dwell in it, even so deal with me. 4 Behold, I build a house to the name of the LORD my God to dedicate it to him, to burn before him sweet incense, for the continual show-bread and for the burnt-offerings morning and evening, on the sabbaths, on the new moons, and on the solemn feasts of the LORD our God. This is an ordinance forever to Israel. 5 And the house which I build is great, for our God is great above all gods. 6 But who is able to build him a house, seeing the heaven and heaven of heavens cannot contain him? Who am I then that I should build him a house, except only to burn sacrifice before him? 7 Now send me therefore a man skillful to work in gold, in silver, in brass, in iron, in purple, crimson, and blue, and who has skill to engrave with the skillful men who are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem, whom David my father provided. 8 Send me also cedar trees, fir trees, and algum trees out of Lebanon, for I know that your servants have skill to cut timber in Lebanon. And behold, my servants shall be with your servants, 9 Even to prepare me timber in abundance, for the house which I am about to build shall be wonderfully great. 10 And behold, I will give to your servants, the hewers who cut timber, twenty thousand measures of beaten wheat, twenty thousand measures of barley, twenty thousand baths of wine, and twenty thousand baths of oil."

11 Then Huram the king of Tyre answered in writing, which he sent to Solomon, "Because the LORD has loved his people, he has made you king over them." 12 Huram said moreover, "Blessed be the LORD God of Israel who made heaven and earth, who has given to David the king a wise son, endued with prudence and understanding, who may build a house for the LORD and a house for his kingdom.

13 "And now I have sent a skillful man, endued with understanding, even Huram my chief workman, 14 The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan, and his father was a man of Tyre, skillful to work in gold, in silver, in brass, in iron, in stone, in timber, in purple, in blue, in fine linen, and in crimson, and also to engrave any manner of engraving, and to find out every device which shall be put to him, with your skillful men and with the skillful men of my lord David your father. 15 Now therefore, the wheat, the barley, the oil, and the wine which my lord has spoken of, let him send to his servants. 16 And we will cut wood out of Lebanon, as much as you shall need, and we will bring it to you in rafts by sea to Joppa, and you may convey it to Jerusalem."

17 And Solomon numbered all the strangers who were in the land of Israel, after the numbering with which David his father had numbered them. And they were found one hundred and fifty-three thousand and six hundred. 18 And he set seventy thousand of them to be bearers of burdens, eighty thousand to be hewers in the mountain, and three thousand and six hundred overseers to set the people to work.

[#sch003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_The place and time of building the temple, 1, 2. The measure and ornaments of the house, 3-10. The cherubim, 11-13. The veil and pillars, 14-17._

1 Then Solomon began to build the house of the LORD at Jerusalem on mount Moriah where the LORD appeared to David his father, in the place that David had prepared in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 2 And he began to build on the second day of the second month, in the fourth year of his reign.

3 Now these are the things in which Solomon was instructed for the building of the house of God: The length by cubits after the first measure was sixty cubits and the breadth twenty cubits. 4 And the porch that was in the front of the house, its length was according to the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and the height was one hundred and twenty. And he overlaid it inside with pure gold. 5 And the greater house he ceiled with fir tree, which he overlaid with fine gold and set on it palm trees and chains. 6 And he garnished the house with precious stones for beauty. And the gold was gold of Parvaim. 7 He overlaid also the house, the beams, the posts, its walls, and its doors with gold and engraved cherubim on the walls.

8 And he made the most holy house, the length of which was according to the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and its breadth twenty cubits. And he overlaid it with fine gold amounting to six hundred talents. 9 And the weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold. And he overlaid the upper chambers with gold.

10 And in the most holy house he made two cherubim of image work and overlaid them with gold. 11 And the wings of the cherubim were twenty cubits long. One wing of one cherub was five cubits, reaching to the wall of the house, and the other wing was likewise five cubits, reaching to the wing of the other cherub. 12 And one wing of the other cherub was five cubits, reaching to the wall of the house, and the other wing was five cubits also, joining to the wing of the other cherub. 13 The wings of these cherubim spread themselves forth twenty cubits. And they stood on their feet, and their faces were inward. 14 And he made the veil of blue, purple, crimson, and fine linen, and wrought cherubim upon it.

15 He also made before the house two pillars of thirty-five cubits high, and the capital that was on the top of each of them was five cubits. 16 And he made chains, as in the oracle, and put them on the heads of the pillars. And he made one hundred pomegranates and put them on the chains. 17 And he erected the pillars before the temple: one on the right hand and the other on the left. And he called the name of the one on the right hand Jachin and the name of the one on the left Boaz.

[#sch004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_The altar of brass, 1. The molten sea upon twelve oxen, 2-5. The ten basins, candlesticks, and tables, 6-8. The courts and the instruments of brass, 9-18. The instruments of gold, 19-22._

1 Moreover, he made an altar of brass, twenty cubits its length, twenty cubits its breadth, and ten cubits its height. 2 He also made a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, entirely round. Its height was five cubits, and a line of thirty cubits encompassed it. 3 And under it was the similitude of oxen, which encompassed it, ten in a cubit, encompassing the sea. Two rows of oxen were cast when it was cast. 4 It stood upon twelve oxen: three looking toward the north, three looking toward the west, three looking toward the south, and three looking toward the east. And the sea was set above upon them, and all their hindquarters were inward. 5 And its thickness was a hand-breadth and its brim like the work of the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies, and it received and held three thousand baths. 6 He also made ten basins and put five on the right hand and five on the left to wash in them. Such things as they offered for the burnt-offering they washed in them. But the sea was for the priests to wash in.

7 And he made ten candlesticks of gold according to their form and set them in the temple: five on the right hand and five on the left. 8 He also made ten tables and placed them in the temple: five on the right side and five on the left. And he made one hundred basins of gold. 9 Furthermore, he made the court of the priests, the great court, and doors for the court, and overlaid their doors with brass. 10 And he set the sea on the right side of the east end, over against the south.

11 And Huram made the pots, the shovels, and the basins. And Huram finished the work that he was to make for king Solomon for the house of God, 12 Namely, the two pillars, the bowls, the capitals which were on the top of the two pillars, and the two wreaths to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were on the top of the pillars, 13 And four hundred pomegranates on the two wreaths, two rows of pomegranates on each wreath to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were upon the pillars. 14 He also made bases and made basins upon the bases, 15 One sea and twelve oxen under it. 16 The pots also, the shovels, the flesh-hooks, and all their instruments, Huram his chief workman made for king Solomon for the house of the LORD of bright brass. 17 In the plain of the Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredathah. 18 Thus Solomon made all these vessels in great abundance, for the weight of the brass could not be ascertained.

19 And Solomon made all the vessels that were for the house of God: the golden altar and the tables on which the show-bread was set; 20 Moreover, the candlesticks with their lamps of pure gold to burn according to the ordinance before the oracle; 21 And the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs, he made of gold (and that of perfect gold); 22 And the snuffers, the basins, the spoons, and the censers, of pure gold; and the entry of the house, its inner doors for the holy of holies, and the doors of the house of the temple were of gold.

[#sch005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_The dedicated treasures, 1. The solemn induction of the ark into the oracle, 2-10. God being praised, gives a visible sign of his favor, 11-14._

1 Thus all the work that Solomon made for the house of the LORD was finished. And Solomon brought in all the things that David his father had dedicated. And the silver, the gold, and all the instruments he put among the treasures of the house of God.

2 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel, at Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD from the city of David, which is Zion. 3 Therefore, all the men of Israel assembled themselves to the king in the feast which was in the seventh month. 4 And all the elders of Israel came, and the Levites took up the ark. 5 And they brought up the ark, the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle. The priests and the Levites brought these up. 6 Also king Solomon and all the congregation of Israel who were assembled to him before the ark sacrificed sheep and oxen, which could not be told nor numbered for multitude. 7 And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the LORD to its place, to the oracle of the house, into the holy of holies, even under the wings of the cherubim, 8 For the cherubim spread forth their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim covered the ark and its staffs above. 9 And they drew out the staffs of the ark so that the ends of the staffs were seen from the ark before the oracle, but they were not seen outside. And it is there to this day. 10 There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets which Moses put in it at Horeb when the LORD made a covenant with the children of Israel when they came out of Egypt.

11 And it came to pass, when the priests had come out of the holy place (for all the priests who were present were sanctified, and did not keep their courses, 12 And also the Levites who were the singers, all of them of Asaph, of Heman, of Jeduthun, with their sons and their brothers, being arrayed in white linen, having cymbals and psalteries and harps, stood at the east end of the altar, and with them one hundred and twenty priests sounding with trumpets), 13 It even came to pass, as the trumpeters and singers were as one to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking the LORD, and when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of music and praised the LORD, saying, "For he is good, for his mercy endures forever," that the house was filled with a cloud, even the house of the LORD, 14 So that the priests could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD had filled the house of God.

[#sch006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_Solomon, having blessed the people, blesses God, 1-11. Solomon's prayer in the consecration of the temple upon the brazen scaffold, etc., 12-42._

1 Then Solomon said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"The LORD has said that he would dwell in the thick darkness.

|
|2 But I have built a house of habitation for you [.linebr]#/# +
and a place for your dwelling forever."
|===

3 And the king turned his face and blessed the whole congregation of Israel. And all the congregation of Israel stood. 4 And he said, "Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who has with his hands fulfilled that which he spoke with his mouth to my father David, saying, 5 'Since the day that I brought forth my people from the land of Egypt I chose no city among all the tribes of Israel to build a house in, that my name might be there, neither did I choose any man to be a ruler over my people Israel, 6 But I have chosen Jerusalem, that my name might be there, and have chosen David to be over my people Israel.' 7 Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of the LORD God of Israel, 8 But the LORD said to David my father, 'Because it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you did well in that it was in your heart. 9 Nevertheless, you shall not build the house, but your son who shall come forth out of your loins, he shall build the house for my name.' 10 The LORD therefore has performed his word that he has spoken, for I am raised up in place of David my father and am set on the throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built the house for the name of the LORD God of Israel. 11 And in it I have put the ark, in which is the covenant of the LORD that he made with the children of Israel."

12 And he stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the congregation of Israel and spread forth his hands. 13 (For Solomon had made a brazen scaffold, of five cubits long, five cubits broad, and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of the court. And upon it he stood and kneeled upon his knees before all the congregation of Israel and spread forth his hands toward heaven.) 14 And he said, "O LORD God of Israel, there is no God like you in the heaven, nor on the earth, keeping covenant and showing mercy to your servants who walk before you with all their hearts— 15 You who have kept with your servant David my father that which you have promised him, and have spoken with your mouth and have fulfilled it with your hand, as it is this day. 16 Now therefore, O LORD God of Israel, keep with your servant David my father that which you have promised him, saying, 'There shall not fail you a man in my sight to sit upon the throne of Israel, provided your children take heed to their way to walk in my law, as you have walked before me.' 17 Now then, O LORD God of Israel, let your word be verified which you have spoken to your servant David.

18 "But will God indeed dwell with men on the earth? Behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain you. How much less this house which I have built! 19 Have respect therefore to the prayer of your servant and to his supplication, O LORD my God, to listen to the cry and the prayer which your servant prays before you, 20 So that your eyes may be open upon this house day and night, upon the place of which you have said that you would put your name there, to listen to the prayer which your servant prays toward this place. 21 Listen therefore to the supplications of your servant and of your people Israel which they shall make toward this place. Hear from your dwelling-place, even from heaven, and when you hear, forgive.

22 "If a man sins against his neighbor, and an oath is laid upon him to make him swear, and the oath comes before your altar in this house, 23 Then hear from heaven and do, and judge your servants by requiting the wicked, by recompensing his way upon his own head, and by justifying the righteous by giving him according to his righteousness.

24 "And if your people Israel are smitten before the enemy, because they have sinned against you, and return and confess your name and pray and make supplication before you in this house, 25 Then hear from the heavens, forgive the sin of your people Israel, and bring them back to the land which you gave to them and to their fathers.

26 "When the heaven is shut and there is no rain because they have sinned against you, yet if they pray toward this place, confess your name, and turn from their sin when you afflict them, 27 Then hear from heaven and forgive the sin of your servants and of your people Israel when you have taught them the good way in which they should walk and send rain upon your land, which you have given to your people for an inheritance.

28 "If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, if there is blight, mildew, swarming-locusts, or ravaging-locusts, if their enemies besiege them in the cities of their land, whatever calamity or whatever sickness there is, 29 Then whatever prayer or whatever supplication is made by any man or by all the people of Israel, when each knows his own calamity and his own grief and spreads forth his hands in this house, 30 Then hear from heaven your dwelling-place, forgive, and render to every man according to all his ways, whose heart you know (for you alone know the hearts of the children of men), 31 So that they may fear you to walk in your ways as long as they live in the land which you gave to our fathers.

32 "Moreover, concerning the stranger who is not of your people Israel, but has come from a distant country for your great name's sake and your mighty hand and your out-stretched arm, if they come and pray in this house, 33 Then hear from the heavens, even from your dwelling-place, and do according to all that the stranger calls to you for so that all people of the earth may know your name and fear you, as do your people Israel, and may know that this house which I have built is called by your name.

34 "If your people go out to war against their enemies by the way that you send them and they pray to you toward this city which you have chosen and the house which I have built for your name, 35 Then hear from the heavens their prayer and their supplication and maintain their cause.

36 "If they sin against you (for there is no man who does not sin), and you are angry with them and deliver them over before their enemies, and they carry them away captives to a land far off or near, 37 Yet if they repent themselves in the land where they are carried captive and turn and pray to you in the land of their captivity, saying, 'We have sinned, we have done amiss and have dealt wickedly,' 38 If they return to you with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their captivity, where they have carried them captives, and pray toward their land which you gave to their fathers, toward the city which you have chosen, and toward the house which I have built for your name, 39 Then hear from the heavens, even from your dwelling-place, their prayer and their supplications, maintain their cause, and forgive your people who have sinned against you.

40 "Now, my God, I implore you, let your eyes be open and let your ears be attentive to the prayer that is made in this place.

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|41 "Now therefore, arise, O LORD God, into your resting-place— [.linebr]#/# +
you and the ark of your strength. [.linebr]#/# +
Let your priests, O LORD God, be clothed with salvation [.linebr]#/# +
and let your saints rejoice in goodness.

|
|42 "O LORD God, do not turn away the face of your anointed. [.linebr]#/# +
Remember the mercies of David your servant."
|===

[#sch007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_God, having given testimony to Solomon's prayer by fire from heaven and glory in the temple, is worshiped by the people, 1-3. Solomon's solemn sacrifice, 4-7. Solomon, having kept the feast of tabernacles and the feast of the dedication of the altar, dismisses the people, 8-11. God, appearing to Solomon, gives him promises upon condition, 12-22._

1 Now when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down from heaven and consumed the burnt-offering and the sacrifices. And the glory of the LORD filled the house. 2 And the priests could not enter into the house of the LORD because the glory of the LORD had filled the LORD'S house. 3 And when all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down and the glory of the LORD upon the house, they bowed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the pavement, worshiped, and praised the LORD, saying, "For he is good, for his mercy endures forever."

4 Then the king and all the people offered sacrifices before the LORD. 5 And king Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty-two thousand oxen and one hundred and twenty thousand sheep. Thus the king and all the people dedicated the house of God. 6 And the priests stood, according to their offices, along with the Levites with instruments of music of the LORD, which David the king had made to praise the LORD, saying, "For his mercy endures forever," when David offered praise by their ministry. And the priests sounded trumpets before them, and all Israel stood.

7 Moreover, Solomon hallowed the middle of the court that was before the house of the LORD, for there he offered burnt-offerings and the fat of the peace-offerings, because the brazen altar which Solomon had made was not able to receive the burnt-offerings, the food-offerings, and the fat.

8 Also at the same time Solomon kept the feast seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great congregation, from the entrance of Hamath to the river of Egypt. 9 And on the eighth day they made a solemn assembly, for they kept the dedication of the altar seven days and the feast seven days. 10 And on the twenty-third day of the seventh month he sent the people away to their tents, glad and merry in heart for the goodness that the LORD had shown to David, to Solomon, and to Israel his people.

11 Thus Solomon finished the house of the LORD and the king's house. And all that came into Solomon's heart to make in the house of the LORD and in his own house, he prosperously effected.

12 And the LORD appeared to Solomon by night and said to him, "I have heard your prayer and have chosen this place for myself as a house of sacrifice. 13 If I shut up heaven so that there is no rain, if I command the locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people, 14 If my people who are called by my name humble themselves, pray, seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, forgive their sin, and will heal their land. 15 Now my eyes shall be open and my ears attentive to the prayer that is made in this place. 16 For now I have chosen and sanctified this house so that my name may be there forever. And my eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually. 17 And as for you, if you will walk before me, as David your father walked, and do according to all that I have commanded you and observe my statutes and my judgments, 18 Then I will establish the throne of your kingdom according as I have covenanted with David your father, saying, 'There shall not fail you a man to be ruler in Israel.'

19 "But if you turn away and forsake my statutes and my commandments which I have set before you and go and serve other gods and worship them, 20 Then I will pluck them up by the roots out of my land which I have given them. And this house, which I have sanctified for my name, I will cast out of my sight and will make it to be a proverb and a by-word among all nations. 21 And this house, which is high, shall be an astonishment to everyone who passes by it, so that he shall say, 'Why has the LORD done so to this land and to this house?' 22 And it shall be answered, 'Because they forsook the LORD God of their fathers who brought them out of the land of Egypt and laid hold upon other gods, worshiped them, and served them, therefore he has brought all this evil upon them.'"

[#sch008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_Solomon's buildings, 1-6. The Canaanites which were left, Solomon makes tributaries, but the Israelites rulers, 7-10. Pharaoh's daughter moves to her house, 11. Solomon's yearly solemn sacrifices, 12, 13. He appoints the priests and Levites to their places, 14-16. The navy fetches gold from Ophir, 17, 18._

1 And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, wherein Solomon had built the house of the LORD and his own house, 2 That the cities which Huram had restored to Solomon, Solomon built them and caused the children of Israel to dwell there.

3 And Solomon went to Hamath-zobah and prevailed against it. 4 And he built Tadmor in the wilderness and all the store cities which he built in Hamath. 5 Also he built Beth-horon the upper and Beth-horon the nether, fortified cities with walls, gates, and bars, 6 And Baalath, all the store cities that Solomon had, all the chariot cities and the cities of the horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and throughout all the land of his dominion.

7 As for all the people who were left of the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of Israel— 8 But of their children who were left after them in the land, whom the children of Israel did not consume—Solomon made them to pay tribute until this day. 9 But Solomon did not make servants for his work of the children of Israel, but they were men of war, chief of his captains, and captains of his chariots and horsemen. 10 And these were the chief of king Solomon's officers, even two hundred and fifty, who bore rule over the people.

11 And Solomon brought up the daughter of Pharaoh from the city of David to the house that he had built for her, for he said, "My wife shall not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, because the places are holy, to which the ark of the LORD has come."

12 Then Solomon offered burnt-offerings to the LORD on the altar of the LORD which he had built before the porch, 13 Even after a certain rate every day, offering according to the commandment of Moses, on the sabbaths, on the new moons, and on the solemn feasts, three times in the year, even in the feast of unleavened bread, in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles.

14 And he appointed, according to the order of David his father, the courses of the priests to their service, the Levites to their charges to praise and minister before the priests as the duty of every day required, and the gatekeepers by their courses at every gate, for thus David the man of God had commanded. 15 And they did not depart from the commandment of the king to the priests and Levites concerning any matter, or concerning the treasures.

16 Now all the work of Solomon was prepared from the day of the foundation of the house of the LORD until it was finished. Thus the house of the LORD was perfected.

17 Then Solomon went to Ezion-geber and to Eloth, at the sea side in the land of Edom. 18 And Huram sent to him by the hands of his servants ships and servants who had knowledge of the sea, and they went with the servants of Solomon to Ophir and took from there four hundred and fifty talents of gold and brought them to king Solomon.

[#sch009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_The queen of Sheba admires the wisdom of Solomon, 1-12. Solomon's revenue in gold, 13, 14. His bucklers and shields, 15, 16. The throne of ivory, 17-19. His vessels, 20-22. His presents, 23, 24. His chariots and horse, 25. His tributes, 26-28. His reign and death, 29-31._

1 And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came to prove Solomon with hard questions at Jerusalem, with a very great company and camels that bore spices, gold in abundance, and precious stones. And when she had come to Solomon, she spoke with him about all that was in her heart. 2 And Solomon answered all her questions, and there was nothing hid from Solomon which he did not tell her. 3 And when the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon, the house that he had built, 4 The provisions of his table, the sitting of his servants, the attendance of his ministers and their apparel, his cup-bearers and their apparel, and his ascent by which he went up into the house of the LORD, there was no more spirit in her. 5 And she said to the king, "It was a true report which I heard in my own land of your acts and of your wisdom. 6 Yet, I did not believe their words until I came and my eyes had seen it. And behold, the half of the greatness of your wisdom was not told to me, for you exceed the fame that I heard. 7 Happy are your men and happy are these servants of yours who stand continually before you and hear your wisdom. 8 Blessed be the LORD your God who delighted in you to set you on his throne to be king for the LORD your God. Because your God loved Israel to establish them forever, therefore he made you king over them to do judgment and justice." 9 And she gave the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold, spices of great abundance, and precious stones. Never was there any such spice as the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon.

10 And also the servants of Huram and the servants of Solomon who brought gold from Ophir, brought algum trees and precious stones. 11 And the king made terraces from the algum trees for the house of the LORD and for the king's palace, and harps and psalteries for singers. And there were none such seen before in the land of Judah.

12 And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire, whatever she asked, besides that which she had brought to the king. So she turned and went away to her own land—she and her servants.

13 Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold, 14 Besides that which traders and merchants brought. And all the kings of Arabia and governors of the country brought gold and silver to Solomon. 15 And king Solomon made two hundred bucklers of beaten gold. Six hundred shekels of beaten gold went to each buckler. 16 And three hundred shields he made of beaten gold. Three hundred shekels of gold went to each shield. And the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon.

17 Moreover, the king made a great throne of ivory and overlaid it with pure gold. 18 And there were six steps to the throne, with a footstool of gold, which were fastened to the throne, and stays on each side of the sitting-place, and two lions standing by the stays. 19 And twelve lions stood there on one side and on the other upon the six steps. There was nothing like it made in any kingdom. 20 And all the drinking vessels of king Solomon were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold. None were of silver, for it was nothing accounted of in the days of Solomon. 21 For the king's ships went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram. Once every three years the ships of Tarshish came bringing gold, silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks.

22 And king Solomon surpassed all the kings of the earth in riches and wisdom. 23 And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom that God had put in his heart. 24 And they each brought his present: vessels of silver, vessels of gold, clothing, armor, spices, horses, and mules, a rate year by year.

25 And Solomon had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots and twelve thousand horsemen, whom he bestowed in the chariot cities and with the king at Jerusalem. 26 And he reigned over all the kings from the river even to the land of the Philistines and to the border of Egypt. 27 And the king made silver in Jerusalem as stones, and cedar trees he made as the sycamore trees that are in the low plains in abundance. 28 And they brought to Solomon horses from Egypt and from all lands.

29 Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, first and last, are they not written in the book of Nathan the prophet, in the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer against Jeroboam the son of Nebat? 30 And Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years.

31 And Solomon slept with his fathers and he was buried in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.

[#sch010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_The Israelites, assembled at Shechem to crown Rehoboam, by Jeroboam make an appeal of relaxation to him, 1-5. Rehoboam, refusing the old men's counsel, by the advice of young men answers them roughly, 6-15. The ten tribes revolt, kill Hadoram, and make Rehoboam flee, 16-19._

1 And Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king. 2 And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard it, who was in Egypt where he had fled from the presence of Solomon the king, that Jeroboam returned from Egypt. 3 And they sent and called him. So Jeroboam and all Israel came and spoke to Rehoboam, saying, 4 "Your father made our yoke grievous. Now therefore, somewhat ease the grievous servitude of your father and his heavy yoke that he put upon us, and we will serve you." 5 And he said to them, "Come back to me after three days." And the people departed.

6 And king Rehoboam took counsel with the old men who had stood before Solomon his father while he still lived, saying, "What counsel do you give me to return answer to this people?" 7 And they spoke to him, saying, "If you will be kind to this people, please them, and speak good words to them, they will be your servants forever." 8 But he forsook the counsel which the old men gave him and took counsel with the young men who were brought up with him, who stood before him. 9 And he said to them, "What advice do you give that we may return answer to this people who have spoken to me, saying, 'Ease somewhat the yoke that your father put upon us'?" 10 And the young men who were brought up with him spoke to him, saying, "Thus you shall answer the people who spoke to you, saying, 'Your father made our yoke heavy, but make it somewhat lighter for us,' thus you shall say to them: 'My little finger shall be thicker than my father's loins. 11 For whereas my father put a heavy yoke upon you, I will put more to your yoke. My father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.'"

12 So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day as the king directed, saying, "Come to me again on the third day." 13 And the king answered them roughly. And king Rehoboam forsook the counsel of the old men, 14 And answered them after the advice of the young men, saying, "My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to it. My father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions." 15 So the king did not listen to the people, for the cause was from God so that the LORD might perform his word which he spoke by the hand of Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

16 And when all Israel saw that the king would not listen to them, the people answered the king, saying, "What portion do we have in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to your tents, O Israel. And now, David, see to your own house." So all Israel went to their tents.

17 But as for the children of Israel who dwelt in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them. 18 Then king Rehoboam sent Hadoram who was over the tribute. And the children of Israel stoned him with stones so that he died. But king Rehoboam made speed to get into his chariot to flee to Jerusalem. 19 And Israel rebelled against the house of David to this day.

[#sch011%breakable]
=== Chapter 11

[.outline.text-center]
_Rehoboam, raising an army to subdue Israel, is forbidden by Shemaiah, 1-4. He strengthens his kingdom with forts and provisions, 5-12. The priests and Levites, and those who feared God, forsaken by Jeroboam, strengthen the kingdom of Judah, 13-17. The wives and children of Rehoboam, 18-23._

1 And when Rehoboam had come to Jerusalem, he gathered from the house of Judah and Benjamin one hundred and eighty thousand chosen men who were warriors to fight against Israel so that he might bring the kingdom back to Rehoboam. 2 But the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying, 3 "Speak to Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin, saying, 4 'Thus says the LORD: "You shall not go up, nor fight against your brothers. Every man return to his house, for this thing is done by me."'" And they obeyed the words of the LORD and returned from going against Jeroboam.

5 And Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem and built cities for defense in Judah. 6 He built even Beth-lehem, Etam, Tekoa, 7 Beth-zur, Shocho, Adullam, 8 Gath, Mareshah, Ziph, 9 Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah, 10 Zorah, Ajalon, and Hebron, which are in Judah and in Benjamin, fortified cities. 11 And he fortified the strongholds and put captains in them, and store of provisions and of oil and wine. 12 And in every single city he put shields and spears and made them exceedingly strong, having Judah and Benjamin on his side.

13 And the priests and the Levites who were in all Israel resorted to him from all their borders.

14 For the Levites left their suburbs and their possession and came to Judah and Jerusalem, for Jeroboam and his sons had cast them off from executing the priest's office to the LORD. 15 And he ordained himself priests for the high places, for the devils, and for the calves which he had made. 16 And those who set their hearts to seek the LORD God of Israel came after them out of all the tribes of Israel to Jerusalem to sacrifice to the LORD God of their fathers. 17 So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah and made Rehoboam the son of Solomon strong for three years, for they walked three years in the way of David and Solomon.

18 And Rehoboam took for himself Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son of David for a wife, and Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse, 19 Who bore him children: Jeush, Shamariah, and Zaham. 20 And after her he took Maachah the daughter of Absalom, who bore him Abijah, Attai, Ziza, and Shelomith. 21 And Rehoboam loved Maachah the daughter of Absalom above all his wives and his concubines (for he took eighteen wives and sixty concubines and begot twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters). 22 And Rehoboam made Abijah the son of Maachah the chief to be ruler among his brothers, for he thought to make him king. 23 And he dealt wisely and dispersed some of his children throughout all the countries of Judah and Benjamin to every fortified city, and he gave them provisions in abundance. And he desired many wives.

[#sch012%breakable]
=== Chapter 12

[.outline.text-center]
_Rehoboam, forsaking the Lord, is punished by Shishak, 1-4. He and the princes, repenting at the preaching of Shemaiah, are delivered from destruction, but not from being plundered, 5-12. The reign and death of Rehoboam, 13-16._

1 And it came to pass, when Rehoboam had established the kingdom and had strengthened himself, he and all Israel with him forsook the law of the LORD. 2 And it came to pass, that in the fifth year of king Rehoboam, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem because they had transgressed against the LORD, 3 With twelve hundred chariots and sixty thousand horsemen. And the people were without number who came with him out of Egypt: the Lubims, the Sukkiims, and the Cushites. 4 And he took the fortified cities which pertained to Judah and came to Jerusalem. 5 Then Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam and to the princes of Judah who were assembled at Jerusalem because of Shishak, and said to them, "Thus says the LORD: 'You have forsaken me, and therefore, I have also left you in the hand of Shishak.'" 6 Upon this the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, "The LORD is righteous."

7 And when the LORD saw that they humbled themselves, the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah, saying, "They have humbled themselves; therefore, I will not destroy them, but I will grant them some deliverance. And my wrath shall not be poured out upon Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak. 8 Nevertheless, they shall be his servants so that they may know my service and the service of the kingdoms of the countries."

9 So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem and took away the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king's house. He took everything. He also carried away the shields of gold which Solomon had made. 10 And king Rehoboam made shields of brass in their place and committed them to the hands of the chief of the guard who kept the entrance of the king's house. 11 And when the king entered into the house of the LORD, the guard came and conveyed them and brought them back into the guard-chamber. 12 And when he humbled himself, the wrath of the LORD turned from him so that he would not destroy him altogether. And also in Judah things went well.

13 So king Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem and reigned. For Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel to put his name there. And his mother's name was Naamah, an Ammonitess. 14 And he did evil because he did not prepare his heart to seek the LORD.

15 Now the acts of Rehoboam, first and last, are they not written in the book of Shemaiah the prophet and of Iddo the seer concerning genealogies? And there were wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually. 16 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David. And Abijah his son reigned in his stead.

[#sch013%breakable]
=== Chapter 13

[.outline.text-center]
_Abijah, succeeding, makes war against Jeroboam, 1-3. He declares the right of his cause, 4-12. Trusting in God, he overcomes Jeroboam, 13-20. The wives and children of Abijah, 21, 22._

1 Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam, Abijah began to reign over Judah. 2 He reigned three years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Michaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. And there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam. 3 And Abijah set the battle in array with an army of valiant men of war, even four hundred thousand chosen men. Jeroboam also set the battle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men, being mighty men of valor.

4 And Abijah stood upon mount Zemaraim, which is in the mountains of Ephraim, and said, "Hear me, Jeroboam and all Israel. 5 Should you not know that the LORD God of Israel gave the kingdom over Israel to David forever, even to him and to his sons by a covenant of salt? 6 Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat the servant of Solomon the son of David has risen up and rebelled against his lord. 7 And there are vain men gathered to him, the children of Belial, and they have strengthened themselves against Rehoboam the son of Solomon, when Rehoboam was young and tender-hearted and could not withstand them.

8 "And now you think to withstand the kingdom of the LORD in the hand of the sons of David. You are a great multitude, and there are with you golden calves which Jeroboam made you for gods. 9 Have you not cast out the priests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron and the Levites, and have made for yourselves priests after the manner of the nations of other lands? Whoever comes to consecrate himself with a young bull and seven rams, the same may be a priest of those who are no gods. 10 But as for us, the LORD is our God and we have not forsaken him. And the priests who minister to the LORD are the sons of Aaron, and the Levites wait upon their business. 11 And they burn to the LORD every morning and every evening burnt-sacrifices and sweet incense. They also set the show-bread in order upon the pure table and the candlestick of gold with its lamps to burn every evening. For we keep the charge of the LORD our God, but you have forsaken him. 12 And behold, God and his priests are with us at our head, with sounding trumpets to cry alarm against you. O children of Israel, do not fight against the LORD God of your fathers, for you will not prosper."

13 But Jeroboam caused an ambush to come around behind them. So they were before Judah, and the ambush was behind them. 14 And when Judah looked back, behold, the battle was before and behind, and they cried to the LORD, and the priests sounded with the trumpets. 15 Then the men of Judah gave a shout. And as the men of Judah shouted, it came to pass, that God smote Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah. 16 And the children of Israel fled before Judah, and God delivered them into their hand. 17 And Abijah and his people slew them with a great slaughter. So there fell slain of Israel five hundred thousand chosen men. 18 Thus the children of Israel were brought under at that time, and the children of Judah prevailed because they relied upon the LORD God of their fathers. 19 And Abijah pursued Jeroboam and took cities from him: Beth-el with its towns, Jeshanah with its towns, and Ephron with its towns.

20 Jeroboam did not recover strength again in the days of Abijah. And the LORD struck him and he died.

21 But Abijah became mighty, married fourteen wives, and begot twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters. 22 And the rest of the acts of Abijah, along with his ways and his sayings, are written in the story of the prophet Iddo.

[#sch014%breakable]
=== Chapter 14

[.outline.text-center]
_Asa succeeding, destroys idolatry, 1-5. Having peace, he strengthens his kingdom with forts and armies, 6-8. Calling on God, he overthrows Zerah and plunders the Ethiopians, 9-15._

1 So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David. And Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land was quiet for ten years.

2 And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of the LORD his God. 3 For he took away the altars of the strange gods and the high places, broke down the images, cut down the groves, 4 And commanded Judah to seek the LORD God of their fathers and to do the law and the commandment. 5 He also took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places and the images. And the kingdom was quiet before him. 6 And he built fortified cities in Judah, for the land had rest. And he had no war in those years because the LORD had given him rest. 7 Therefore, he said to Judah, "Let us build these cities and surround them with walls, towers, gates, and bars, while the land is still before us, because we have sought the LORD our God, we have sought him, and he has given us rest on every side." So they built and prospered. 8 And Asa had an army of three hundred thousand men out of Judah who bore bucklers and spears, and two hundred and eighty thousand out of Benjamin who bore shields and drew bows. All these were mighty men of valor.

9 And Zerah the Cushite came out against them with a host of one million, and also three hundred chariots, and came to Mareshah. 10 Then Asa went out against him, and they set the battle in array in the valley of Zephathath at Mareshah. 11 And Asa cried to the LORD his God and said, "LORD, it is nothing with you to help, whether with many, or with those who have no power. Help us, O LORD our God, for we rest on you, and in your name we go against this multitude. O LORD, you are our God. Do not let man prevail against you." 12 So the LORD smote the Cushites before Asa and before Judah, and the Cushites fled. 13 And Asa and the people who were with him pursued them to Gerar. And the Cushites were overthrown so that they could not recover themselves, for they were destroyed before the LORD and before his host. And they carried away a large amount of plunder. 14 And they smote all the cities around Gerar, for the fear of the LORD came upon them. And they plundered all the cities, for there was an abundance of plunder in them. 15 They also smote the tents of livestock and carried away sheep and camels in abundance and returned to Jerusalem.

[#sch015%breakable]
=== Chapter 15

[.outline.text-center]
_Asa, with Judah and many of Israel, moved by the prophecy of Azariah the son of Oded, make a solemn covenant with God, 1-15. He puts down Maachah his mother for her idolatry, 16, 17. He brings dedicated things into the house of God and enjoys a long peace, 18, 19._

1 And the Spirit of God came upon Azariah the son of Oded. 2 And he went out to meet Asa and said to him, "Hear me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin. The LORD is with you while you are with him. And if you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will forsake you. 3 Now for a long season Israel has been without the true God, without a teaching priest, and without law. 4 But when they in their trouble returned to the LORD God of Israel and sought him, he was found by them. 5 And in those times there was no peace to him who went out, nor to him who came in, but great vexations were upon all the inhabitants of the countries. 6 And nation was destroyed by nation and city by city, for God troubled them with all adversity. 7 Be strong therefore, and do not let your hands be weak, for your work shall be rewarded."

8 And when Asa heard these words and the prophecy of Oded the prophet, he took courage and put away the abominable idols out of all the land of Judah and Benjamin and out of the cities which he had taken from mount Ephraim, and renewed the altar of the LORD that was before the porch of the LORD. 9 And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin and the strangers with them out of Ephraim and Manasseh and out of Simeon, for they resorted to him out of Israel in multitudes when they saw that the LORD his God was with him. 10 So they assembled at Jerusalem in the third month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa. 11 And they offered to the LORD at the same time from the plunder which they had brought seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep. 12 And they entered into a covenant to seek the LORD God of their fathers with all their heart and with all their soul, 13 That whoever would not seek the LORD God of Israel should be put to death, whether small or great, whether man or woman. 14 And they swore to the LORD with a loud voice, with shouting, with trumpets, and with horns. 15 And all Judah rejoiced at the oath, for they had sworn with all their heart and sought him with their whole desire, and he was found by them. And the LORD gave them rest on all sides.

16 And also concerning Maachah the mother of Asa the king, he removed her from being queen because she had made an idol in a grove. And Asa cut down her idol, stamped it, and burnt it at the brook Kidron. 17 But the high places were not taken away out of Israel. Nevertheless, the heart of Asa was perfect all his days. 18 And he brought into the house of God the things that his father had dedicated and that he himself had dedicated: silver, gold, and vessels. 19 And there was no more war until the thirty-fifth year of the reign of Asa.

[#sch016%breakable]
=== Chapter 16

[.outline.text-center]
_Asa, by the aid of the Syrians, diverts Baasha from building Ramah, 1-6. Being reproved thereof by Hanani, he puts him in prison, 7-10. Among his other acts in his disease he does not seek God, but the physicians, 11, 12. His death and burial, 13, 14._

1 In the thirty-sixth year of the reign of Asa, Baasha king of Israel came against Judah and built Ramah so that he might let no one go out or come in to Asa king of Judah. 2 Then Asa brought silver and gold out of the treasures of the house of the LORD and of the king's house and sent to Ben-hadad king of Syria, who dwelt at Damascus, saying, 3 "There is a league between you and me, as there was between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent you silver and gold. Go, break your league with Baasha king of Israel so that he may depart from me." 4 And Ben-hadad listened to king Asa and sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel. And they smote Ijon, Dan, Abelmaim, and all the store cities of Naphtali. 5 And it came to pass, when Baasha heard it, that he left off the building of Ramah and let his work cease. 6 Then Asa the king took all Judah, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber with which Baasha was building, and he built with it Geba and Mizpah.

7 And at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah and said to him, "Because you have relied on the king of Syria and have not relied on the LORD your God, therefore the host of the king of Syria has escaped out of your hand. 8 Were the Cushites and the Lubims not a numerous army with very many chariots and horsemen? Yet, because you relied on the LORD, he delivered them into your hand. 9 For the eyes of the LORD run to and fro throughout the whole earth to show himself strong on behalf of those whose heart is perfect toward him. In this you have done foolishly. Therefore, from now on you shall have wars." 10 Then Asa was angry with the seer and put him in a prison house, for he was in a rage with him because of this thing. And Asa oppressed some of the people the same time.

11 And behold, the acts of Asa, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel. 12 And Asa in the thirty-ninth year of his reign was diseased in his feet until his disease was exceedingly severe. Yet in his disease he did not seek the LORD, but the physicians. 13 And Asa slept with his fathers and died in the forty-first year of his reign. 14 And they buried him in his own sepulchers which he had made for himself in the city of David, and laid him in the bed which was filled with sweet odors and diverse kinds of spices prepared by the perfumers' art. And they made a very great burning for him.

[#sch017%breakable]
=== Chapter 17

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehoshaphat, succeeding Asa, reigns well and prospers, 1-6. He sends Levites with the princes to teach Judah, 7-9. His enemies being terrified by God, some of them bring him presents and tribute, 10, 11. His greatness, captains, and armies, 12-19._

1 And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead and strengthened himself against Israel. 2 And he placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah and set garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim, which Asa his father had taken.

3 And the LORD was with Jehoshaphat because he walked in the first ways of his father David and did not seek Baalim, 4 But sought the LORD God of his father and walked in his commandments and not after the doings of Israel. 5 Therefore, the LORD established the kingdom in his hand. And all Judah brought presents to Jehoshaphat, and he had riches and honor in abundance. 6 And his heart was lifted up in the ways of the LORD. Moreover, he took away the high places and groves out of Judah.

7 Also in the third year of his reign he sent to his princes, even to Ben-hail, to Obadiah, to Zechariah, to Nethaneel, and to Michaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah. 8 And with them he sent Levites, even Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tob-adonijah, Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, priests. 9 And they taught in Judah, having the book of the law of the LORD with them, and went around throughout all the cities of Judah and taught the people.

10 And the fear of the LORD fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were around Judah so that they made no war against Jehoshaphat. 11 Also, some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents and tribute silver. And the Arabians brought him flocks: seven thousand and seven hundred rams and seven thousand and seven hundred male goats. 12 And Jehoshaphat became exceedingly great. And in Judah he built castles and cities of store. 13 And he had much business in the cities of Judah. And the men of war, mighty men of valor, were in Jerusalem. 14 And these are their numbers according to the house of their fathers. Of Judah, the captains of thousands: Adnah the chief, and with him three hundred thousand mighty men of valor; 15 And next to him was Jehohanan the captain, and with him two hundred and eighty thousand; 16 And next to him was Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly offered himself to the LORD, and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of valor. 17 And of Benjamin: Eliada a mighty man of valor, and with him two hundred thousand armed men with bow and shield; 18 And next to him was Jehozabad, and with him one hundred and eighty thousand ready prepared for the war. 19 These waited on the king, besides those whom the king put in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.

[#sch018%breakable]
=== Chapter 18

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehoshaphat, becoming son-in-law to Ahab, is persuaded to go with him against Ramoth-gilead, 1-3. Ahab, seduced by false prophets, according to the word of Micaiah, is slain there, 4-34._

1 Now Jehoshaphat had riches and honor in abundance and made himself son-in-law to Ahab. 2 And after some years he went down to Ahab in Samaria. And Ahab killed sheep and oxen in abundance for him and for the people who were with him, and persuaded him to go up with him to Ramoth-gilead. 3 And Ahab king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, "Will you go with me to Ramoth-gilead?" And he answered him, "I am as you are and my people as your people. And we will be with you in the war."

4 And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, "Inquire, I pray you, at the word of the LORD today." 5 Therefore, the king of Israel gathered the prophets, four hundred men, and said to them, "Shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear?" And they said, "Go up, for God will deliver it into the king's hand." 6 But Jehoshaphat said, "Is there not here another prophet of the LORD so that we may inquire of him?" 7 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "There is still one man by whom we may inquire of the LORD, but I hate him, for he never prophesies good to me, but always evil. The same is Micaiah the son of Imla." And Jehoshaphat said, "Do not let the king say so."

8 And the king of Israel called for one of his officers and said, "Quickly bring Micaiah the son of Imla." 9 And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah each sat on his throne clothed in their robes, and they sat in a void place at the entrance of the gate of Samaria. And all the prophets prophesied before them. 10 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah had made him horns of iron and said, "Thus says the LORD: 'With these you shall push Syria until they are consumed.'" 11 And all the prophets similarly prophesied, saying, "Go up to Ramoth-gilead and prosper, for the LORD will deliver it into the hand of the king."

12 And the messenger who went to call Micaiah spoke to him, saying, "Behold, the words of the prophets declare good to the king with one consent. Let your word therefore, I pray you, be like one of theirs and speak good." 13 And Micaiah said, "As the LORD lives, even what my God says, that I will speak."

14 And when he had come to the king, the king said to him, "Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear?" And he said, "Go up and prosper, and they shall be delivered into your hand." 15 And the king said to him, "How many times shall I adjure you that you say nothing but the truth to me in the name of the LORD?"

16 Then he said, "I saw all Israel scattered upon the mountains as sheep that have no shepherd. And the LORD said, 'These have no master. Let them each return therefore to his house in peace.'"

17 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy good to me, but evil?"

18 Again he said, "Therefore, hear the word of the LORD. I saw the LORD sitting upon his throne and all the host of heaven standing on his right hand and on his left. 19 And the LORD said, 'Who shall entice Ahab king of Israel that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead?' And one spoke saying after this manner and another saying after that manner. 20 Then a spirit came out and stood before the LORD and said, 'I will entice him.' And the LORD said to him, 'With what?' 21 And he said, 'I will go out and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.' And the LORD said, 'You shall entice him and you shall also prevail. Go out and do even so.' 22 Now therefore, behold, the LORD has put a lying spirit in the mouth of these prophets of yours and the LORD has spoken evil against you."

23 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near and smote Micaiah upon the cheek and said, "Which way did the Spirit of the LORD go from me to speak to you?" 24 And Micaiah said, "Behold, you shall see on that day when you go into an inner chamber to hide yourself." 25 Then the king of Israel said, "Take Micaiah and carry him back to Amon the governor of the city and to Joash the king's son, 26 And say, 'Thus says the king: "Put this man in the prison and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction until I return in peace."'" 27 And Micaiah said, "If you certainly return in peace, then the LORD has not spoken by me." And he said, "Listen, all you people."

28 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead. 29 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "I will disguise myself and go to the battle, but put on your robes." So the king of Israel disguised himself, and they went to the battle. 30 Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of the chariots who were with him, saying, "Do not fight with small or great, but only with the king of Israel." 31 And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, "It is the king of Israel." Therefore, they turned around to fight him. But Jehoshaphat cried out, and the LORD helped him. And God moved them to depart from him. 32 For it came to pass, that when the captains of the chariots perceived that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back again from pursuing him. 33 And a certain man drew a bow at random and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the harness. Therefore, he said to his chariot-man, "Turn your hand so that you may carry me out of the host, for I am wounded." 34 And the battle increased that day. Nevertheless, the king of Israel supported himself in his chariot against the Syrians until the evening. And about the time of the sunset he died.

[#sch019%breakable]
=== Chapter 19

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehoshaphat, reproved by Jehu, visits his kingdom, 1-4. His instructions to the judges, 5-7; to the priests and Levites, 8-11._

1 And Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned to his house in peace to Jerusalem. 2 And Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him and said to king Jehoshaphat, "Should you help the ungodly and love those who hate the LORD? Therefore, wrath is upon you from before the LORD. 3 Nevertheless, there are good things found in you, in that you have taken away the groves out of the land and have prepared your heart to seek God."

4 And Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem. And he went out again through the people from Beer-sheba to mount Ephraim and brought them back to the LORD God of their fathers.

5 And he set judges in the land throughout all the fortified cities of Judah, city by city, 6 And said to the judges, "Take heed what you do, for you do not judge for man, but for the LORD who is with you in the judgment. 7 Now therefore, let the fear of the LORD be upon you. Take heed and do it, for there is no iniquity with the LORD our God, nor respect of persons, nor taking of gifts."

8 Moreover, in Jerusalem, Jehoshaphat set some of the Levites, priests, and chief of the fathers of Israel for the judgment of the LORD and for controversies when they returned to Jerusalem. 9 And he charged them, saying, "Thus you shall do in the fear of the LORD, faithfully and with a perfect heart. 10 And whatever cause comes to you from your brothers who dwell in their cities, between blood and blood, between law and commandment, statutes and judgments, you shall even warn them that they do not trespass against the LORD so that wrath may not come upon you and upon your brothers. Do this and you shall not trespass. 11 And behold, Amariah the chief priest is over you in all matters of the LORD, and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house of Judah, in all the king's matters. Also, the Levites shall be officers before you. Deal courageously, and the LORD will be with the good."

[#sch020%breakable]
=== Chapter 20

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehoshaphat, invaded by Moab, proclaims a fast, 1-4. His prayer, 5-13. The prophecy of Jahaziel, 14-19. Jehoshaphat exhorts the people and sets singers to praise the Lord, 20, 21. The great overthrow of his enemies, 22-25. The people, having blessed God at Berachah, return in triumph, 26-30. Jehoshaphat's reign, 31-34. His convoy of ships, according to the prophecy of Eliezer, unhappily perish, 35-37._

1 It came to pass after this also, that the children of Moab and the children of Ammon, and with them some of the Ammonites, came against Jehoshaphat to battle. 2 Then there came some who told Jehoshaphat, saying, "There comes a great multitude against you from beyond the sea on this side of Syria, and behold, they are in Hazazon-tamar, which is En-gedi." 3 And Jehoshaphat feared, set himself to seek the LORD, and proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. 4 And Judah assembled to ask help from the LORD. Even from all the cities of Judah they came to seek the LORD.

5 And Jehoshaphat stood in the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem in the house of the LORD before the new court, 6 And said, "O LORD God of our fathers, are you not God in heaven? And do you not rule over all the kingdoms of the heathen? And in your hand is there not power and might so that no one is able to withstand you? 7 Are you not our God who drove out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel and gave it to the offspring of Abraham your friend forever? 8 And they dwelt in it and have built you a sanctuary in it for your name, saying, 9 'If, when evil comes upon us, as the sword, judgment, pestilence, or famine, we stand before this house and in your presence (for your name is in this house) and cry to you in our affliction, then you will hear and help.' 10 And now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and mount Seir, whom you would not let Israel invade when they came from the land of Egypt, but they turned from them and did not destroy them, 11 Behold, I say, how they reward us, to come to cast us out of your possession which you have given us to inherit. 12 O our God, will you not judge them? For we have no might against this great company who comes against us, neither do we know what to do. But our eyes are upon you."

13 And all Judah stood before the LORD, with their infants, their wives, and their children.

14 Then upon Jehaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, the Spirit of the LORD came in the midst of the congregation. 15 And he said, "Listen, all Judah, inhabitants of Jerusalem, and king Jehoshaphat, thus says the LORD to you: 'Do not be afraid nor dismayed by reason of this great multitude, for the battle is not yours, but God's. 16 Tomorrow, go down against them. Behold, they come up by the cliff of Ziz, and you shall find them at the end of the brook before the wilderness of Jeruel. 17 You shall not need to fight in this battle. Set yourselves, stand still, and see the salvation of the LORD with you, O Judah and Jerusalem. Do not fear, nor be dismayed. Tomorrow, go out against them, for the LORD will be with you.'"

18 And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground. And all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell before the LORD, worshiping the LORD. 19 And the Levites, of the children of the Kohathites and of the children of the Korhites, stood up to praise the LORD God of Israel with a loud voice on high.

20 And they rose early in the morning and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa. And as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and said, "Hear me, O Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem. Believe in the LORD your God and you shall be established. Believe his prophets and you shall prosper." 21 And when he had consulted with the people, he appointed singers to the LORD who should praise the beauty of his holiness as they went out before the army, and to say, "Praise the LORD, for his mercy endures forever." 22 And when they began to sing and to praise, the LORD set ambushes against the children of Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir who had come against Judah, and they were smitten. 23 For the children of Ammon and Moab stood up against the inhabitants of mount Seir, utterly to slay and destroy them. And when they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, everyone helped to destroy another.

24 And when Judah came toward the watch-tower in the wilderness, they looked to the multitude, and behold, they were dead bodies fallen to the earth and no one escaped. 25 And when Jehoshaphat and his people came to take away their plunder, they found among them in abundance both riches with the dead bodies and precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves, more than they could carry away. And they were three days in gathering the plunder because it was so much.

26 And on the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley of Berachah, for there they blessed the LORD. Therefore, the name of the same place has been called The Valley of Berachah to this day. 27 Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and Jehoshaphat in the front of them, to go back to Jerusalem with joy, for the LORD had made them to rejoice over their enemies. 28 And they came to Jerusalem with psalteries, harps, and trumpets to the house of the LORD. 29 And the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of those countries when they had heard that the LORD fought against the enemies of Israel. 30 Thus the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet, for his God gave him rest on all sides.

31 And Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. He was thirty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi. 32 And he walked in the way of Asa his father and did not depart from it, doing that which was right in the sight of the LORD. 33 But the high places were not taken away. For as yet the people had not prepared their hearts to the God of their fathers.

34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of Jehu the son of Hanani, who is mentioned in the book of the kings of Israel.

35 And after this Jehoshaphat king of Judah joined himself with Ahaziah king of Israel, who did very wickedly. 36 And he joined himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish. And they made the ships in Ezion-geber. 37 Then Eliezer the son of Dodavah of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, "Because you have joined yourself with Ahaziah, the LORD has broken your works." And the ships were broken so that they were not able to go to Tarshish.

[#sch021%breakable]
=== Chapter 21

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehoram, succeeding Jehoshaphat, slays his brothers, 1-4. His wicked reign, 5-7. Edom and Libnah revolt, 8-11. The prophecy of Elijah against him in writing, 12-15. Philistines and Arabians oppress him, 16, 17. His incurable disease, infamous death, and burial, 18-20._

1 Now Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And Jehoram his son reigned in his stead. 2 And he had brothers, the sons of Jehoshaphat: Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azariahu, Michael, and Shephatiah. All these were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel. 3 And their father gave them great gifts of silver, of gold, and of precious things, with fortified cities in Judah. But the kingdom he gave to Jehoram because he was the first-born.

4 Now when Jehoram had risen to the kingdom of his father, he strengthened himself and slew all his brothers with the sword, and also some of the princes of Israel. 5 Jehoram was thirty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem. 6 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab, for he had the daughter of Ahab for a wife. And he wrought that which was evil in the eyes of the LORD. 7 Yet the LORD would not destroy the house of David because of the covenant that he had made with David, and as he promised to give a light to him and to his sons forever.

8 In his days the Edomites revolted from under the dominion of Judah and made themselves a king. 9 Then Jehoram went forth with his princes and all his chariots with him. And he rose by night and smote the Edomites who encompassed him and the captains of the chariots. 10 So the Edomites revolted from under the hand of Judah to this day. At the same time Libnah also revolted from under his hand because he had forsaken the LORD God of his fathers. 11 Moreover, he made high places in the mountains of Judah and caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to commit fornication, and compelled Judah to do the same.

12 And a writing came to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, "Thus says the LORD God of David your father: 'Because you have not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat your father, nor in the ways of Asa king of Judah, 13 But have walked in the way of the kings of Israel and have made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to commit idolatry, like the idolatries of the house of Ahab, and also have slain your brothers of your father's house, who were better than yourself, 14 Behold, with a great plague the LORD will smite your people, your children, your wives, and all your goods. 15 And you shall have great sickness by disease of your bowels until your bowels fall out by reason of the sickness day by day.'"

16 Moreover, the LORD stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines and of the Arabians, who were near the Cushites. 17 And they came up into Judah, broke into it, and carried away all the substance that was found in the king's house, and also his sons and his wives, so that there was not a son left to him, except Jehoahaz the youngest of his sons.

18 And after all this the LORD smote him in his bowels with an incurable disease. 19 And it came to pass, that in process of time, after the end of two years, his bowels fell out by reason of his sickness. Thus he died of severe diseases. And his people made no burning for him, like the burning of his fathers. 20 He was thirty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years and departed without being desired. Yet they buried him in the city of David, but not in the sepulchers of the kings.

[#sch022%breakable]
=== Chapter 22

[.outline.text-center]
_Ahaziah, succeeding, reigns wickedly, 1-4. In his confederacy with Joram, the son of Ahab, he is slain by Jehu, 5-9. Athaliah usurps the kingdom, destroying all the royal family, except Joash, whom Jehoshabeath his aunt hid, 10-12._

1 And the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah his youngest son king in his stead, for the band of men who came with the Arabians to the camp had slain all the eldest. Thus Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah reigned. 2 Ahaziah was forty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Athaliah the daughter of Omri. 3 He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother was his counselor to do wickedly. 4 Therefore, he did evil in the sight of the LORD like the house of Ahab, for they were his counselors, after the death of his father, to his destruction.

5 He also walked after their counsel and went with Jehoram the son of Ahab king of Israel to war against Hazael king of Syria at Ramoth-gilead. And the Syrians smote Joram. 6 And he returned to be healed in Jezreel because of the wounds which were given to him at Ramah when he fought with Hazael king of Syria. And Azariah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Jehoram the son of Ahab at Jezreel because he was sick.

7 And the destruction of Ahaziah was from God by coming to Joram, for when he had come, he went out with Jehoram against Jehu the son of Nimshi, whom the LORD had anointed to cut off the house of Ahab.

8 And it came to pass, that when Jehu was executing judgment upon the house of Ahab and found the princes of Judah and the sons of the brothers of Ahaziah, who ministered to Ahaziah, he slew them. 9 And he sought Ahaziah, and they caught him (for he was hid in Samaria) and brought him to Jehu. And when they had slain him, they buried him, because they said, "He is the son of Jehoshaphat, who sought the LORD with all his heart." So the house of Ahaziah had no power to retain the kingdom.

10 But when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the royal family of the house of Judah. 11 But Jehoshabeath, the daughter of the king, took Joash the son of Ahaziah and stole him from among the king's sons who were slain and put him and his nurse in a bed chamber. So Jehoshabeath, the daughter of king Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest (for she was the sister of Ahaziah), hid him from Athaliah so that she did not slay him. 12 And he was with them hid in the house of God for six years. And Athaliah reigned over the land.

[#sch023%breakable]
=== Chapter 23

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehoiada, having set things in order, makes Joash king, 1-11. Athaliah is slain, 12-15. Jehoiada restores the worship of God, 16-21._

1 And in the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himself and took the captains of hundreds, even Azariah the son of Jeroham, Ishmael the son of Jehohanan, Azariah the son of Obed, Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, into covenant with him. 2 And they went throughout Judah and gathered the Levites out of all the cities of Judah and the chief of the fathers of Israel, and they came to Jerusalem. 3 And all the congregation made a covenant with the king in the house of God. And he said to them, "Behold, the king's son shall reign as the LORD has said concerning the sons of David. 4 This is the thing that you shall do: a third part of you entering on the sabbath, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be gatekeepers of the doors, 5 A third part shall be at the king's house, and a third part at the gate of the foundation. And all the people shall be in the courts of the house of the LORD. 6 But let no one come into the house of the LORD, except the priests and those Levites who minister. They shall go in, for they are holy, but all the people shall keep the watch of the LORD. 7 And the Levites shall encompass the king, each with his weapons in his hand. And whoever else comes into the house, he shall be put to death. But be with the king when he comes in and when he goes out."

8 So the Levites and all Judah did according to all things that Jehoiada the priest had commanded, and each took his men who were to come in on the sabbath with those who were to go out on the sabbath, for Jehoiada the priest did not dismiss the courses. 9 Moreover, Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains of hundreds spears, bucklers, and shields, which had been king David's, which were in the house of God. 10 And he set all the people, each having his weapon in his hand, from the right side of the temple to the left side of the temple, along by the altar and the temple, by the king on all sides. 11 Then they brought out the king's son, put the crown upon him, gave him the testimony, and made him king. And Jehoiada and his sons anointed him and said, "God save the king."

12 Now when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she came to the people into the house of the LORD. 13 And she looked, and behold, the king stood at his pillar at the entrance, and the princes and the trumpets by the king. And all the people of the land rejoiced and sounded with trumpets, and the singers with instruments of music were leading the singing of praise. Then Athaliah rent her clothes and said, "Treason, treason." 14 Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds who were set over the host and said to them, "Bring her forth outside the ranges. And whoever follows her, let him be slain with the sword." For the priest said, "Do not slay her in the house of the LORD." 15 So they laid hands on her, and when she had come to the entrance of the horse gate by the king's house, they slew her there.

16 And Jehoiada made a covenant between himself, between all the people, and between the king, that they should be the LORD'S people. 17 Then all the people went to the house of Baal, broke it down, broke his altars and his images in pieces, and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. 18 Also Jehoiada appointed the offices of the house of the LORD by the hand of the priests the Levites, whom David had distributed in the house of the LORD to offer the burnt-offerings of the LORD, as it is written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, as it was ordained by David. 19 And he set the gatekeepers at the gates of the house of the LORD so that no one who was unclean in anything should enter. 20 And he took the captains of hundreds, the nobles, the governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and brought the king down from the house of the LORD. And they came through the high gate into the king's house and set the king upon the throne of the kingdom. 21 And all the people of the land rejoiced and the city was quiet after they had slain Athaliah with the sword.

[#sch024%breakable]
=== Chapter 24

[.outline.text-center]
_Joash reigns well all the days of Jehoiada, 1-3. He gives order for the repair of the temple, 4-14. Jehoiada's death and honorable burial, 15, 16. Joash, falling into idolatry, slays Zechariah the son of Jehoiada, 17-22. Joash is plundered by the Syrians and slain by Zabad and Jehozabad, 23-26. Amaziah succeeds him, 27._

1 Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Zibiah of Beer-sheba. 2 And Joash did that which was right in the sight of the LORD all the days of Jehoiada the priest. 3 And Jehoiada took for him two wives and he begot sons and daughters.

4 And it came to pass after this, that Joash was minded to repair the house of the LORD. 5 And he convened the priests and the Levites and said to them, "Go out to the cities of Judah and gather from all Israel money to repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that you hasten the matter." But the Levites did not hasten it. 6 And the king called for Jehoiada the chief and said to him, "Why have you not required the Levites to bring in from Judah and from Jerusalem the collection, according to the commandment of Moses the servant of the LORD and of the congregation of Israel, for the tabernacle of witness?" 7 For the sons of Athaliah, that wicked woman, had broken up the house of God, and also all the dedicated things of the house of the LORD they bestowed upon Baalim.

8 And at the king's commandment they made a chest and set it outside at the gate of the house of the LORD. 9 And they made a proclamation through Judah and Jerusalem to bring in to the LORD the collection that Moses the servant of God laid upon Israel in the wilderness. 10 And all the princes and all the people rejoiced, brought in, and cast into the chest until they had made an end. 11 Now it came to pass, that at the time the chest was brought to the king's office by the hand of the Levites, and when they saw that there was much money, the king's scribe and the high priest's officer came and emptied the chest, took it, and carried it to its place again. Thus they did day by day and collected money in abundance. 12 And the king and Jehoiada gave it to those who did the work of the service of the house of the LORD, and hired masons and carpenters to repair the house of the LORD, and also those who wrought iron and brass to mend the house of the LORD. 13 Thus the workmen wrought and the work was perfected by them, and they set the house of God in its state and strengthened it. 14 And when they had finished it, they brought the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada, of which were made vessels for the house of the LORD, even vessels to minister and to offer with, and spoons and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered burnt-offerings in the house of the LORD continually all the days of Jehoiada.

15 But Jehoiada grew old and was full of days when he died. He was one hundred and thirty years old when he died. 16 And they buried him in the city of David among the kings because he had done good in Israel, both toward God and toward his house.

17 Now after the death of Jehoiada the princes of Judah came and made obeisance to the king. Then the king listened to them. 18 And they left the house of the LORD God of their fathers and served groves and idols. And wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for their trespass. 19 Yet he sent prophets to them to bring them back to the LORD. And they testified against them, but they would not give ear.

20 And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest, who stood above the people, and said to them, "Thus says God: 'Why do you transgress the commandments of the LORD so that you cannot prosper? Because you have forsaken the LORD, he has also forsaken you.'" 21 And they conspired against him and stoned him with stones at the commandment of the king in the court of the house of the LORD. 22 Thus Joash the king did not remember the kindness which Jehoiada his father had done to him, but slew his son. And when he died, he said, "May the LORD look upon it and require it."

23 And it came to pass at the end of the year, that the army of Syria came up against him. And they came to Judah and Jerusalem, destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, and sent all their plunder to the king of Damascus. 24 For the army of the Syrians came with a small company of men, and the LORD delivered a very great host into their hand because they had forsaken the LORD God of their fathers. Thus they executed judgment against Joash.

25 And when they had departed from him (for they left him in great diseases), his own servants conspired against him for the blood of the sons of Jehoiada the priest and slew him on his bed, and he died. And they buried him in the city of David, but they did not bury him in the sepulchers of the kings. 26 And these are those who conspired against him: Zabad the son of Shimeath the Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith the Moabitess. 27 Now concerning his sons, the greatness of the burdens laid upon him, and the repairing of the house of God, behold, they are written in the story of the book of the kings. And Amaziah his son reigned in his stead.

[#sch025%breakable]
=== Chapter 25

[.outline.text-center]
_Amaziah begins to reign well, 1, 2. He executes justice on the traitors, 3, 4. Having hired an army of Israelites against the Edomites, at the word of a prophet dismisses them, 5-10. He overthrows the Edomites, 11, 12. The Israelites, discontented with their dismission, plunder as they return home, 13. Amaziah, proud of his victory, serves the gods of Edom and despises the admonitions of the prophet, 14-16. He provokes Joash to his overthrow, 17-24. His reign, 25, 26. He is slain by conspiracy, 27, 28._

1 Amaziah was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem. 2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, but not with a perfect heart. 3 Now it came to pass, when the kingdom was established to him, that he slew his servants who had killed the king his father. 4 But he did not slay their children, but did as it is written in the law of the book of Moses, where the LORD commanded, saying, "The fathers shall not die for the children, neither shall the children die for the fathers, but every man shall die for his own sin."

5 Moreover, Amaziah assembled Judah and made them captains over thousands and captains over hundreds, according to the houses of their fathers, throughout all Judah and Benjamin. And he numbered them from twenty years old and above and found them to be three hundred thousand choice men, able to go forth to war, who could handle spear and shield. 6 He also hired one hundred thousand mighty men of valor out of Israel for one hundred talents of silver. 7 But a man of God came to him, saying, "O king, do not let the army of Israel go with you, for the LORD is not with Israel, namely, with all the children of Ephraim. 8 But if you will go, do it, be strong for the battle. God will make you fall before the enemy, for God has power to help and to cast down." 9 And Amaziah said to the man of God, "But what shall we do for the hundred talents which I have given to the army of Israel?" And the man of God answered, "The LORD is able to give you much more than this." 10 Then Amaziah separated them, namely, the army that had come to him out of Ephraim, to go home again. Therefore, their anger was greatly kindled against Judah and they returned home in great anger.

11 And Amaziah strengthened himself, led forth his people, went to the valley of salt, and smote ten thousand of the children of Seir. 12 And the children of Judah carried away captive another ten thousand left alive, brought them to the top of the rock, and cast them down from the top of the rock so that they were all broken in pieces. 13 But the soldiers of the army whom Amaziah sent back, so that they should not go with him to battle, fell upon the cities of Judah, from Samaria even to Beth-horon, and smote three thousand of them and took a large amount of plunder.

14 Now it came to pass, after Amaziah had come from the slaughter of the Edomites, that he brought the gods of the children of Seir, set them up to be his gods, bowed himself before them, and burned incense to them. 15 Therefore, the anger of the LORD was kindled against Amaziah and he sent to him a prophet, who said to him, "Why have you sought after the gods of the people which could not deliver their own people out of your hand?" 16 And it came to pass as he talked with him, that the king said to him, "Have we made you the king's council? Forbear! Why should you be smitten?" Then the prophet forbore and said, "I know that God has determined to destroy you because you have done this and have not listened to my counsel."

17 Then Amaziah king of Judah took advice and sent to Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, "Come, let us see one another in the face." 18 And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, "The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon, saying, 'Give your daughter to my son for a wife.' And a wild beast that was in Lebanon passed by and trod down the thistle. 19 You say, 'Behold, you have smitten the Edomites,' and your heart lifts you up to boast. Now abide at home. Why should you meddle to your hurt so that you should fall, even you, and Judah with you?"

20 But Amaziah would not hear, for it came from God so that he might deliver them into the hand of their enemies because they sought after the gods of Edom. 21 So Joash the king of Israel went up, and they saw one another in the face, both he and Amaziah king of Judah, at Beth-shemesh, which belongs to Judah. 22 And Judah was defeated before Israel, and every man fled to his tent. 23 And Joash the king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, at Beth-shemesh, and brought him to Jerusalem and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits. 24 And he took all the gold and the silver, all the vessels that were found in the house of God with Obed-edom, the treasures of the king's house, and the hostages, and returned to Samaria.

25 And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived fifteen years after the death of Joash, son of Jehoahaz king of Israel. 26 Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, first and last, behold, are they not written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel? 27 Now after the time that Amaziah turned away from following the LORD, they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish. But they sent to Lachish after him and slew him there. 28 And they brought him upon horses and buried him with his fathers in the city of Judah.

[#sch026%breakable]
=== Chapter 26

[.outline.text-center]
_Uzziah, succeeding and reigning well in the days of Zechariah, prospers, 1-15. Growing proud, he invades the priest's office and is smitten with leprosy, 16-21. He dies and Jotham succeeds him, 22, 23._

1 Then all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in place of his father Amaziah. 2 He built Eloth and restored it to Judah after the king slept with his fathers. 3 Uzziah was sixteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem. 4 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father Amaziah did. 5 And he sought God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding in the visions of God. And as long as he sought the LORD, God made him to prosper.

6 And he went forth and warred against the Philistines and broke down the wall of Gath, the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod, and built cities around Ashdod and among the Philistines. 7 And God helped him against the Philistines, against the Arabians who dwelt in Gur-baal, and the Mehunims. 8 And the Ammonites gave gifts to Uzziah. And his name spread abroad even to the entrance of Egypt, for he strengthened himself exceedingly. 9 Moreover, Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate, at the valley gate, and at the turning of the wall, and fortified them. 10 Also, he built towers in the desert and dug many wells, for he had a large number of livestock, both in the low country and in the plains, and also farmers and vine-dressers in the mountains and in Carmel, for he loved farming. 11 Moreover, Uzziah had an army of fighting men that went out to war by bands, according to the number of their account by the hand of Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the ruler, under the hand of Hananiah, one of the king's captains. 12 The whole number of the chief of the fathers of the mighty men of valor was two thousand and six hundred. 13 And under their hand was an army, three hundred and seven thousand and five hundred, that made war with mighty power, to help the king against the enemy. 14 And Uzziah prepared for them, even for all the army, shields, spears, helmets, habergeons, bows, and slings to cast stones. 15 And he made war machines in Jerusalem, invented by skillful men, to be on the towers and upon the bulwarks to shoot arrows and great stones. And his name spread far abroad, for he was helped in a wonderful manner until he was strong.

16 But when he was strong, his heart was lifted up to his destruction, for he transgressed against the LORD his God and went into the temple of the LORD to burn incense upon the altar of incense. 17 And Azariah the priest went in after him, and with him eighty priests of the LORD who were valiant men. 18 And they withstood Uzziah the king and said to him, "It does not belong to you, Uzziah, to burn incense to the LORD, but to the priests the sons of Aaron who are consecrated to burn incense. Go out of the sanctuary, for you have trespassed. It will not be for your honor from the LORD God." 19 Then Uzziah was angry and had a censer in his hand to burn incense. And while he was angry with the priests, the leprosy even rose up in his forehead before the priests in the house of the LORD, from beside the incense altar. 20 And Azariah the chief priest and all the priests looked upon him, and behold, he was leprous in his forehead, and they thrust him out from there. Indeed, he himself hastened to go out, because the LORD had smitten him. 21 And Uzziah the king was a leper to the day of his death and dwelt in a separate house, being a leper, for he was cut off from the house of the LORD. And Jotham his son was over the king's house judging the people of the land.

22 Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first and last, were written by Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos. 23 So Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the field of the burial which belonged to the kings, for they said, "He is a leper." And Jotham his son reigned in his stead.

[#sch027%breakable]
=== Chapter 27

[.outline.text-center]
_Jotham, reigning well, prospers, 1-4. He subdues the Ammonites, 5, 6. His reign and death; Ahaz succeeds him, 7-9._

1 Jotham was twenty-five years old when he began to reign and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jerushah, the daughter of Zadok. 2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father Uzziah did; however, he did not enter into the temple of the LORD. And the people yet again acted corruptly. 3 He built the high gate of the house of the LORD, and on the wall of Ophel he built much. 4 Moreover, he built cities in the mountains of Judah, and in the forests he built castles and towers. 5 He also fought with the king of the Ammonites and prevailed against them. And the children of Ammon gave him the same year one hundred talents of silver, ten thousand measures of wheat, and ten thousand of barley. So the children of Ammon payed much to him, both the second year and the third. 6 Thus Jotham became mighty because he prepared his ways before the LORD his God. 7 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham and all his wars and his ways, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. 8 He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. 9 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David. And Ahaz his son reigned in his stead

[#sch028%breakable]
=== Chapter 28

[.outline.text-center]
_Ahaz, reigning very wickedly, is greatly afflicted by the Syrians, 1-5. Judah, being captivated by the Israelites, is sent home by the counsel of Oded the prophet, 6-15. Ahaz, sending for aid to Assyria, is not helped thereby, 16-21. In his distress he grows more idolatrous, 22-25. After he dies, Hezekiah succeeds him, 26, 27._

1 Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. But he did not do that which was right in the sight of the LORD, like David his father, 2 For he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel and also made molten images for Baalim. 3 Moreover, he burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnom and burnt his children in the fire, after the abominations of the heathen whom the LORD had cast out before the children of Israel. 4 He also sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, on the hills, and under every green tree.

5 Therefore, the LORD his God delivered him into the hand of the king of Syria, and they smote him and carried away a great multitude of them captives and brought them to Damascus. And he was also delivered into the hand of the king of Israel, who smote him with a great slaughter. 6 For Pekah the son of Remaliah slew in Judah one hundred and twenty thousand in one day, who were all valiant men, because they had forsaken the LORD God of their fathers. 7 And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, slew Maaseiah the king's son, Azrikam the governor of the house, and Elkanah who was next to the king.

8 And the children of Israel carried away captive from their brothers two hundred thousand women, sons, and daughters. They also took away a large amount of plunder from them and brought the plunder to Samaria. 9 But a prophet of the LORD was there, whose name was Oded, and he went out before the army that came to Samaria and said to them, "Behold, because the LORD God of your fathers was angry with Judah, he has delivered them into your hand, and you have slain them in a rage that reaches to heaven. 10 And now you purpose to subdue the children of Judah and Jerusalem for men-servants and women-servants for yourselves. But are there not with you, even with you, sins against the LORD your God? 11 Now hear me therefore, and deliver the captives back which you have taken captive from your brothers, for the fierce wrath of the LORD is upon you." 12 Then some of the heads of the children of Ephraim, Azariah the son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, Jehizkiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai, stood up against those who came from the war. 13 And said to them, "You shall not bring the captives in here. For whereas we have offended against the LORD already, you intend to add more to our sins and to our trespass, for our trespass is great and there is fierce wrath against Israel." 14 So the armed men left the captives and the plunder before the princes and all the congregation. 15 And the men who were expressed by name arose, took the captives, and with the plunder clothed all who were naked among them and arrayed them, shod them, gave them something to eat and to drink, anointed them, carried all the feeble among them upon donkeys, and brought them to their brothers at Jericho, the city of palm trees. Then they returned to Samaria.

16 At that time king Ahaz sent to the kings of Assyria to help him. 17 For again the Edomites had come and smitten Judah and carried away captives. 18 The Philistines also had invaded the cities of the low country, and of the south of Judah, and had taken Beth-shemesh, Ajalon, Gederoth, Shocho with its villages, Timnah with its villages, and Gimzo with its villages, and they dwelt there. 19 For the LORD brought Judah low because of Ahaz king of Israel, for he made Judah naked and greatly transgressed against the LORD. 20 And Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria came to him and distressed him, but did not strengthen him. 21 For Ahaz took away a portion from the house of the LORD and from the house of the king and of the princes and gave it to the king of Assyria, but he did not help him.

22 And in the time of his distress he trespassed yet more against the LORD—this same king Ahaz. 23 For he sacrificed to the gods of Damascus, which smote him, and he said, "Because the gods of the kings of Syria help them, therefore I will sacrifice to them so that they may help me." But they were the ruin of him and of all Israel. 24 And Ahaz collected the vessels of the house of God and cut in pieces the vessels of the house of God. And he shut up the doors of the house of the LORD and made for himself altars in every corner of Jerusalem. 25 And in every single city of Judah he made high places to burn incense to other gods and provoked to anger the LORD God of his fathers. 26 Now the rest of his acts and of all his ways, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel. 27 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city, even in Jerusalem, but they did not bring him into the sepulchers of the kings of Israel. And Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.

[#sch029%breakable]
=== Chapter 29

[.outline.text-center]
_Hezekiah's good reign, 1, 2. He restores religion, 3, 4. He exhorts the Levites, 5-11. They sanctify themselves and cleanse the house of God, 12-19. Hezekiah offers solemn sacrifices, wherein the Levites are more forward than the priests, 20-36._

1 Hezekiah began to reign when he was twenty-five years old, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Abijah the daughter of Zechariah. 2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that David his father had done.

3 He, in the first year of his reign, in the first month, opened the doors of the house of the LORD and repaired them. 4 And he brought in the priests and the Levites and assembled them in the east street, 5 And said to them, "Hear me, you Levites. Now sanctify yourselves and sanctify the house of the LORD God of your fathers and carry forth the filthiness out of the holy place. 6 For our fathers have trespassed and done that which was evil in the eyes of the LORD our God and have forsaken him, turned away their faces from the habitation of the LORD, and turned their backs. 7 Also, they have shut up the doors of the porch, put out the lamps, and have not burned incense nor offered burnt-offerings in the holy place to the God of Israel. 8 Therefore, the wrath of the LORD has been upon Judah and Jerusalem, and he has delivered them to trouble, to astonishment, and to hissing, as you see with your eyes. 9 For behold, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons, our daughters, and our wives are in captivity for this. 10 Now it is in my heart to make a covenant with the LORD God of Israel so that his fierce wrath may turn away from us. 11 My sons, do not be negligent now, for the LORD has chosen you to stand before him, to serve him, and that you should minister to him and burn incense."

12 Then the Levites arose: Mahath the son of Amasai and Joel the son of Azariah, of the sons of the Kohathites; and of the sons of Merari: Kish the son of Abdi and Azariah the son of Jehalelel; and of the Gershonites: Joah the son of Zimmah and Eden the son of Joah; 13 And of the sons of Elizaphan: Shimri and Jeiel; and of the sons of Asaph: Zechariah and Mattaniah; 14 And of the sons of Heman: Jehiel and Shimei; and of the sons of Jeduthun: Shemaiah and Uzziel. 15 And they assembled their brothers, sanctified themselves, and came to cleanse the house of the LORD according to the commandment of the king, by the words of the LORD. 16 And the priests went into the inner part of the house of the LORD to cleanse it, and brought out all the uncleanness that they found in the temple of the LORD into the court of the house of the LORD. And the Levites took it and carried it out abroad into the brook Kidron. 17 Now they began on the first day of the first month to sanctify, and on the eighth day of the month they came to the porch of the LORD. Thus they sanctified the house of the LORD in eight days. And on the sixteenth day of the first month they made an end. 18 Then they went inside to Hezekiah the king and said, "We have cleansed all the house of the LORD, the altar of burnt-offering with all its vessels, and the show-bread table with all its vessels. 19 Moreover, all the vessels which king Ahaz in his reign cast away in his transgression, we have prepared and sanctified, and behold, they are before the altar of the LORD."

20 Then Hezekiah the king rose early, convened the rulers of the city, and went up to the house of the LORD. 21 And they brought seven bulls, seven rams, seven lambs, and seven male goats for a sin-offering for the kingdom, for the sanctuary, and for Judah. And he commanded the priests the sons of Aaron to offer them on the altar of the LORD. 22 So they killed the bulls, and the priests received the blood and sprinkled it on the altar. Likewise, when they had killed the rams, they sprinkled the blood upon the altar. They also killed the lambs and sprinkled the blood upon the altar. 23 And they brought forth the male goats for the sin-offering before the king and the congregation and laid their hands upon them. 24 And the priests killed them and made reconciliation with their blood upon the altar to make an atonement for all Israel, for the king commanded that the burnt-offering and the sin-offering should be made for all Israel.

25 And he set the Levites in the house of the LORD with cymbals, with psalteries, and with harps, according to the commandment of David, of Gad the king's seer, and Nathan the prophet, for thus was the commandment of the LORD by his prophets. 26 And the Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets. 27 And Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt-offering upon the altar. And when the burnt-offering began, the song of the LORD also began with the trumpets and with the instruments ordained by David king of Israel. 28 And all the congregation worshiped, the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded. And all this continued until the burnt-offering was finished.

29 And when they had made an end of offering, the king and all who were present with him bowed themselves and worshiped. 30 Moreover, Hezekiah the king and the princes commanded the Levites to sing praise to the LORD, with the words of David and of Asaph the seer. And they sang praises with gladness and they bowed their heads and worshiped.

31 Then Hezekiah answered and said, "Now you have consecrated yourselves to the LORD. Come near and bring sacrifices and thank-offerings into the house of the LORD." And the congregation brought in sacrifices and thank-offerings. And as many as were of a free heart brought burnt-offerings. 32 And the number of the burnt-offerings, which the congregation brought, was seventy bulls, one hundred rams, and two hundred lambs. All these were for a burnt-offering to the LORD. 33 And the consecrated things were six hundred oxen and three thousand sheep. 34 But the priests were too few so that they could not flay all the burnt-offerings. Therefore, their brothers the Levites helped them until the work was ended and until the other priests had sanctified themselves, for the Levites were more upright in heart to sanctify themselves than the priests. 35 And also the burnt-offerings were in abundance with the fat of the peace-offerings and the drink-offerings for every burnt-offering. Thus the service of the house of the LORD was set in order. 36 And Hezekiah and all the people rejoiced that God had prepared the people, for the thing was done suddenly.

[#sch030%breakable]
=== Chapter 30

[.outline.text-center]
_Hezekiah proclaims a solemn passover on the second month for Judah and Israel, 1-12. The assembly, having destroyed the altars of idolatry, keep the feast fourteen days, 13-26. The priests and Levites bless the people, 27._

1 And Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and also wrote letters to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of the LORD at Jerusalem to keep the passover to the LORD God of Israel. 2 For the king, his princes, and all the congregation in Jerusalem had taken counsel to keep the passover in the second month. 3 For they could not keep it at that time because the priests had not sanctified themselves sufficiently, neither had the people assembled themselves at Jerusalem. 4 And the thing pleased the king and all the congregation. 5 So they established a decree to make proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beer-sheba even to Dan, that they should come to keep the passover to the LORD God of Israel at Jerusalem, for they had not done it for a long time in the manner as it was written. 6 So the posts went with the letters from the king and his princes throughout all Israel and Judah, and according to the commandment of the king, saying, "Children of Israel, turn back to the LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, and he will return to the remnant of you who have escaped from the hand of the kings of Assyria. 7 And do not be like your fathers and like your brothers who trespassed against the LORD God of their fathers, sp that he gave them up to desolation, as you see. 8 Now do not be stiff-necked as your fathers were, but yield yourselves to the LORD and enter into his sanctuary which he has sanctified forever, and serve the LORD your God so that the fierceness of his wrath may turn away from you. 9 For if you turn back to the LORD, your brothers and your children will find compassion before those who lead them captive so that they will return into this land, for the LORD your God is gracious and merciful and will not turn away his face from you if you return to him."

10 So the posts passed from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh and even to Zebulun, but they laughed them to scorn and mocked them. 11 Nevertheless, some of Asher, Manasseh, and of Zebulun humbled themselves and came to Jerusalem. 12 The hand of God was also in Judah to give them one heart to do the commandment of the king and of the princes by the word of the LORD.

13 And many people assembled at Jerusalem to keep the feast of unleavened bread in the second month, a very great congregation. 14 And they arose and took away the altars that were in Jerusalem, and all the altars for incense they took away and cast them into the brook Kidron. 15 Then they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the second month. And the priests and the Levites were ashamed and sanctified themselves and brought in the burnt-offerings into the house of the LORD. 16 And they stood in their place after their manner, according to the law of Moses the man of God. The priests sprinkled the blood, which they received from the hand of the Levites. 17 For there were many in the congregation who were not sanctified; therefore, the Levites had the charge of the killing of the passovers for everyone who was not clean to sanctify them to the LORD. 18 For a multitude of the people, even many of Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet they ate the passover in a way other than it was written. But Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, "May the good LORD pardon everyone 19 Who prepares his heart to seek God, the LORD God of his fathers, though he is not cleansed according to the purification of the sanctuary." 20 And the LORD listened to Hezekiah and healed the people. 21 And the children of Israel who were present at Jerusalem kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with great gladness. And the Levites and the priests praised the LORD day by day, singing with loud instruments to the LORD. 22 And Hezekiah spoke comfortably to all the Levites who taught the good knowledge of the LORD. And they ate throughout the feast seven days, offering peace-offerings and making confession to the LORD God of their fathers.

23 And the whole assembly took counsel to keep another seven days. And they kept the seven days with gladness. 24 For Hezekiah king of Judah gave to the congregation one thousand bulls and seven thousand sheep, and the princes gave to the congregation one thousand bulls and ten thousand sheep. And a great number of priests sanctified themselves. 25 And all the congregation of Judah with the priests and the Levites, all the congregation who came out of Israel, the strangers who came from the land of Israel, and those who dwelt in Judah, rejoiced. 26 So there was great joy in Jerusalem, for since the time of Solomon the son of David king of Israel there was nothing like it in Jerusalem. 27 Then the priests the Levites arose and blessed the people. And their voice was heard and their prayer ascended to his holy dwelling-place, even to heaven.

[#sch031%breakable]
=== Chapter 31

[.outline.text-center]
_The people are forward in destroying idolatry, 1. Hezekiah orders the courses of the priests and Levites and provides for their work and maintenance, 2-4. The people's forwardness in offerings and tithes, 5-10. Hezekiah appoints officers to dispose of the tithes, 11-19. The sincerity of Hezekiah, 20, 21._

1 Now when all this was finished, all Israel who were present went out to the cities of Judah and broke the images in pieces, cut down the groves, and threw down the high places and the altars out of all Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh until they had utterly destroyed them all. Then all the children of Israel each returned to his possession into their own cities.

2 And Hezekiah appointed the courses of the priests and the Levites after their courses, every man according to his service, the priests and Levites for burnt-offerings and for peace-offerings, to minister, to give thanks, and to praise in the gates of the tents of the LORD.

3 He also appointed the king's portion of his substance for the burnt-offerings, namely, for the morning and evening burnt-offerings, and the burnt-offerings for the sabbaths, for the new-moons, and for the set feasts, as it is written in the law of the LORD. 4 Moreover, he commanded the people who dwelt in Jerusalem to give the portion of the priests and the Levites so that they might be encouraged in the law of the LORD. 5 And as soon as the commandment came abroad, the children of Israel brought in abundance the first-fruits of grain, wine, oil, honey, and of all the increase of the field. And the tithe of all things they brought in abundantly. 6 And the children of Israel and Judah who dwelt in the cities of Judah, they also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep, and the tithe of holy things which were consecrated to the LORD their God, and laid them by heaps. 7 In the third month they began to lay the foundation of the heaps, and finished them in the seventh month. 8 And when Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they blessed the LORD and his people Israel. 9 Then Hezekiah questioned with the priests and the Levites concerning the heaps. 10 And Azariah the chief priest of the house of Zadok answered him and said, "Since the people began to bring the offerings into the house of the LORD, we have had enough to eat and have plenty left over, for the LORD has blessed his people. And that which is left is this great abundance."

11 Then Hezekiah commanded to prepare chambers in the house of the LORD. And they prepared them, 12 And brought in the offerings and the tithes and the dedicated things faithfully, over which Conaniah the Levite was ruler and Shimei his brother was next. 13 And Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismachiah, Mahath, and Benaiah were overseers under the hand of Conaniah and Shimei his brother, at the commandment of Hezekiah the king and Azariah the ruler of the house of God. 14 And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the gatekeeper toward the east, was over the voluntary-offerings of God to distribute the oblations of the LORD and the most holy things. 15 And under him were Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the cities of the priests, in their set office, to give to their brothers by courses, to the great as well as to the small, 16 Besides their genealogy of males, from three years old and upward, even to everyone who enters into the house of the LORD, his daily portion for their service in their charges according to their courses. 17 This is the distribution of the priests by the house of their fathers and the Levites from twenty years old and upward, in their charges by their courses, 18 And to the genealogy of all their little ones, their wives, their sons, and their daughters, through all the congregation. For in their set office they sanctified themselves in holiness. 19 Also, for the sons of Aaron the priests who were in the fields of the suburbs of their cities, in every single city, there were men who were expressed by name to give portions to all the males among the priests and to all who were reckoned by genealogies among the Levites.

20 And Hezekiah did this throughout all Judah. And he performed that which was good and right and faithful before the LORD his God. 21 And in every work that he began in the service of the house of God and in the law and in the commandments, to seek his God, he did it with all his heart and prospered.

[#sch032%breakable]
=== Chapter 32

[.outline.text-center]
_Sennacherib invading Judah, Hezekiah fortifies himself and encourages his people, 1-8. Against the blasphemies of Sennacherib, Hezekiah and Isaiah pray, 9-20. An angel destroys the host of the Assyrians, 21-23. Hezekiah prays in his sickness, and God gives him a sign of recovery, 24. Growing proud, he is humbled by God, 25, 26. His wealth and works, 27-30. His error in the business of Babylon, 31. After he dies, Manasseh succeeds him, 32, 33._

1 After these things and their establishment, Sennacherib king of Assyria came, entered into Judah, encamped against the fortified cities, and thought to win them for himself. 2 And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come and that he purposed to fight against Jerusalem, 3 He took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were outside the city. And they helped him. 4 So there were many people assembled who stopped all the fountains and the brook that ran through the midst of the land, saying, "Why should the kings of Assyria come and find much water?" 5 He also strengthened himself, built up all the wall that was broken, raised it up to the towers, built another wall outside, repaired Millo in the city of David, and made darts and shields in abundance. 6 And he set captains of war over the people, assembled them to him in the street of the gate of the city, and encouraged them, saying, 7 "Be strong and courageous, do not be afraid nor dismayed before the king of Assyria, nor before all the multitude who is with him, for there are more with us than with him. 8 With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is the LORD our God to help us and to fight our battles." And the people rested themselves upon the words of Hezekiah king of Judah.

9 After this, Sennacherib king of Assyria sent his servants to Jerusalem (but he himself laid siege against Lachish, and all his power with him) against Hezekiah king of Judah and against all Judah who were at Jerusalem, saying, 10 "Thus says Sennacherib king of Assyria: 'On what do you trust that you abide in the siege in Jerusalem? 11 Does Hezekiah not persuade you to give over yourselves to die by famine and by thirst, saying, "The LORD our God will deliver us out of the hand of the king of Assyria"? 12 Has the same Hezekiah not taken away his high places and his altars and commanded Judah and Jerusalem, saying, "You shall worship before one altar and burn incense upon it"? 13 Do you not know what my fathers and I have done to all the people of other lands? Were the gods of the nations of those lands any way able to deliver their lands out of my hand? 14 Who was there among all the gods of those nations that my fathers utterly destroyed who could deliver his people out of my hand, that your God should be able to deliver you out of my hand? 15 Now therefore, do not let Hezekiah deceive you, nor persuade you in this manner, neither yet believe him. For no god of any nation or kingdom has been able to deliver his people out of my hand and out of the hand of my fathers. How much less shall your God deliver you out of my hand?'"

16 And his servants continued to speak against the LORD God and against his servant Hezekiah. 17 He also wrote letters to rail at the LORD God of Israel and to speak against him, saying, "As the gods of the nations of other lands have not delivered their people out of my hand, so shall the God of Hezekiah not deliver his people out of my hand." 18 Then they cried with a loud voice in the Jews' speech to the people of Jerusalem who were on the wall to terrify them and to fill them with consternation so that they might take the city. 19 And they spoke against the God of Jerusalem as against the gods of the people of the earth, the work of the hands of man.

20 And for this cause Hezekiah the king and the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz prayed and cried to heaven. 21 And the LORD sent an angel who cut off all the mighty men of valor and the leaders and captains in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. And when he had come into the house of his god, those who came forth from his own body slew him there with the sword. 22 Thus the LORD saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib the king of Assyria and from the hand of all others and guided them on every side. 23 And many brought gifts to the LORD in Jerusalem and presents to Hezekiah king of Judah, so that from thereafter he was magnified in the sight of all nations.

24 In those days Hezekiah was sick and near death, and he prayed to the LORD. And he spoke to him and gave him a sign. 25 But Hezekiah did not recompense according to the benefit done to him, for his heart was lifted up. Therefore, there was wrath upon him and upon Judah and Jerusalem. 26 However, Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of the LORD did not come upon them in the days of Hezekiah.

27 And Hezekiah had very great riches and honor. And he made himself treasuries for silver, for gold, for precious stones, for spices, for shields, and for all manner of pleasant jewels, 28 And also store-houses for the increase of grain, wine, and oil, and stalls for all manner of beasts, and folds for flocks. 29 Moreover, he provided for himself cities and possessions of flocks and herds in abundance, for God had given him substance in great abundance. 30 This same Hezekiah also stopped the upper watercourse of Gihon and brought it straight down to the west side of the city of David. And Hezekiah prospered in all his works. 31 But, in the business of the ambassadors of the princes of Babylon, who sent to him to inquire of the wonder that was done in the land, God left him to try him so that he might know all that was in his heart.

32 Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and his goodness, behold, they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz, and in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel. 33 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the chief of the sepulchers of the sons of David. And all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem did him honor at his death. And Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.

[#sch033%breakable]
=== Chapter 33

[.outline.text-center]
_Manasseh's wicked reign, 1, 2. He sets up idolatry and will not be admonished, 3-10. He is carried into Babylon, 11. Upon his prayer to God, he is released and puts down idolatry, 12-17. His acts, 18, 19. After he dies, Amon succeeds him, 20; who is slain by his servants, 21-24. The murderers being slain, Josiah succeeds him, 25._

1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem. 2 But he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, like the abominations of the heathen whom the LORD had cast out before the children of Israel. 3 For he rebuilt the high places which Hezekiah his father had broken down and he reared up altars for Baalim, made groves, and worshiped all the host of heaven and served them. 4 He also built altars in the house of the LORD, of which the LORD had said, "In Jerusalem my name shall be forever." 5 And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the LORD. 6 And he caused his children to pass through the fire in the valley of the son of Hinnom. He also observed times, used enchantments, used witchcraft, and dealt with a familiar spirit and with wizards. He wrought much evil in the sight of the LORD to provoke him to anger. 7 And he set a carved image, the idol which he had made, in the house of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon his son, "In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen before all the tribes of Israel, I will put my name forever. 8 I will no more remove the foot of Israel from the land which I have appointed for your fathers, provided they will take heed to do all that I have commanded them, according to the whole law and the statutes and the ordinances by the hand of Moses." 9 So Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to err and to do worse than the heathen, whom the LORD had destroyed before the children of Israel.

10 And the LORD spoke to Manasseh and to his people, but they would not listen. 11 Therefore, the LORD brought upon them the captains of the army of the king of Assyria who took Manasseh among the thorns, bound him with fetters, and carried him to Babylon. 12 And when he was in affliction, he implored the LORD his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers. 13 And he prayed to him, and God was entreated by him, heard his supplication, and brought him back to Jerusalem into his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the LORD is God.

14 Now after this, he built a wall outside the city of David on the west side of Gihon, in the valley, even to the entrance at the fish-gate, and he encircled Ophel with it and raised it up a very great height. And he put captains of war in all the fortified cities of Judah. 15 And he took away the strange gods, the idol out of the house of the LORD, and all the altars that he had built on the mountain of the house of the LORD and in Jerusalem, and cast them out of the city. 16 And he repaired the altar of the LORD and sacrificed peace-offerings and thank-offerings on it, and commanded Judah to serve the LORD God of Israel. 17 Nevertheless, the people still sacrificed in the high places, but to the LORD their God only.

18 Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, his prayer to his God, and the words of the seers who spoke to him in the name of the LORD God of Israel, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel. 19 His prayer also, and how God was entreated by him, and all his sin, his trespass, and the places in which he built high places, and set up groves and engraved images, before he was humbled, behold, they are written among the sayings of the seers. 20 So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his own house. And Amon his son reigned in his stead.

21 Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and reigned two years in Jerusalem. 22 But he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as Manasseh his father did, for Amon sacrificed to all the carved images which Manasseh his father had made and served them, 23 And did not humble himself before the LORD, as Manasseh his father had humbled himself. But Amon trespassed more and more. 24 And his servants conspired against him and slew him in his own house. 25 But the people of the land slew all those who had conspired against king Amon. And the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his stead.

[#sch034%breakable]
=== Chapter 34

[.outline.text-center]
_Josiah's good reign, 1, 2. He destroys idolatry, 3-7. He takes order for the repair of the temple, 8-13. Hilkiah finds the book of the law, and when Josiah hears the words of the law, he sends Hilkiah and others to inquire of the Lord, 14-21. They go to Huldah, who prophesies the destruction of Jerusalem, but respite thereof in Josiah's time, 22-28. Josiah, causing it to be read in a solemn assembly, renews the covenant with God, 29-33._

1 Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem thirty-one years. 2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD and walked in the ways of David his father and declined neither to the right hand, nor to the left. 3 For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was still young, he began to seek after the God of David his father. And in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem of the high places, the groves, the carved images, and the molten images. 4 And they broke down the altars of Baalim in his presence, and he cut down the images that were on high above them. And the groves, the carved images, and the molten images he broke in pieces and made dust of them and scattered it upon the graves of those who had sacrificed to them. 5 And he burnt the bones of the priests upon their altars and cleansed Judah and Jerusalem. 6 And he did the same in the cities of Manasseh, Ephraim, Simeon, and even to Naphtali, with their mattocks around. 7 And when he had broken down the altars and the groves, beaten the engraved images into powder, and cut down all the idols throughout all the land of Israel, he returned to Jerusalem.

8 Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the land and the house, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, Maaseiah the governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder to repair the house of the LORD his God. 9 And when they came to Hilkiah the high priest, they delivered the money that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites who kept the doors had collected from the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, from all the remnant of Israel, from all Judah and Benjamin, and from the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 10 And they put it in the hand of the workmen who had the oversight of the house of the LORD, and they gave it to the workmen who wrought in the house of the LORD to repair and mend the house. 11 They even gave it to the carpenters and builders to buy hewn stone and timber for couplings and to floor the houses which the kings of Judah had destroyed. 12 And the men did the work faithfully. And their overseers were Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites, of the sons of Merari; and Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to superintend it; and others of the Levites, all who had skill in instruments of music. 13 They were also over the bearers of burdens and were overseers of all who wrought the work in any manner of service. And some of the Levites were scribes, officers, and gatekeepers.

14 And when they brought out the money that was brought into the house of the LORD, Hilkiah the priest found the book of the law of the LORD given by Moses. 15 And Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the scribe, "I have found the book of the law in the house of the LORD." And Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan. 16 And Shaphan carried the book to the king and brought the king word back again, saying, "All that was committed to your servants, they perform. 17 And they have collected the money that was found in the house of the LORD and have delivered it into the hand of the overseers and to the hand of the workmen." 18 Then Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, "Hilkiah the priest has given me a book." And Shaphan read it before the king.

19 And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the law, that he rent his clothes. 20 And the king commanded Hilkiah, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Abdon the son of Micah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah a servant of the king, saying, 21 "Go, inquire of the LORD for me and for those who are left in Israel and in Judah concerning the words of the book that is found. For great is the wrath of the LORD that is poured out upon us because our fathers have not kept the word of the LORD, to do after all that is written in this book."

22 And Hilkiah and those whom the king had appointed went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvath, the son of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the second quarter), and they spoke to her to that effect. 23 And she answered them, "Thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'Tell the man who sent you to me, 24 "Thus says the LORD: 'Behold, I will bring evil upon this place and upon its inhabitants, even all the curses that are written in the book which they have read before the king of Judah. 25 Because they have forsaken me and have burned incense to other gods in order to provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands, therefore my wrath shall be poured out upon this place and shall not be quenched.'"' 26 And as for the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of the LORD, thus you shall say to him: 'Thus says the LORD God of Israel concerning the words which you have heard: 27 "Because your heart was tender and you humbled yourself before God when you heard his words against this place and against its inhabitants, and humbled yourself before me and rent your clothes and wept before me, I have even heard you also," says the LORD. 28 "Behold, I will gather you to your fathers and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, neither shall your eyes see all the evil that I will bring upon this place and upon the inhabitants of the same."'" So they brought back word to the king.

29 Then the king sent and convened all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem. 30 And the king went into the house of the LORD, with all the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the priests, the Levites, and all the people, great and small, and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant that was found in the house of the LORD.

31 And the king stood in his place and made a covenant before the LORD, to walk after the LORD and to keep his commandments, his testimonies, and his statutes with all his heart and with all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant which are written in this book. 32 And he caused all who were present in Jerusalem and Benjamin to stand to it. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers. 33 And Josiah took away all the abominations out of all the countries that pertained to the children of Israel and made all who were present in Israel to serve, even to serve the LORD their God. And all his days they did not depart from following the LORD, the God of their fathers.

[#sch035%breakable]
=== Chapter 35

[.outline.text-center]
_Josiah keeps a most solemn passover, 1-19. Provoking Pharaoh-necho, he is slain at Megiddo, 20-24. Lamentations for Josiah, 25-27._

1 Moreover, Josiah kept a passover to the LORD in Jerusalem. And they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month. 2 And he set the priests in their charges and encouraged them to the service of the house of the LORD, 3 And said to the Levites who taught all Israel, who were holy to the LORD, "Put the holy ark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel built. It shall not be a burden upon your shoulders. Now serve the LORD your God and his people Israel, 4 And prepare yourselves by the houses of your fathers after your courses, according to the writing of David king of Israel and according to the writing of Solomon his son. 5 And stand in the holy place according to the divisions of the families of the fathers of your brothers the people, and according to the division of the families of the Levites. 6 And kill the passover, sanctify yourselves, and prepare your brothers, so that they may do according to the word of the LORD by the hand of Moses."

7 And Josiah gave to the people lambs and kids from the flock, all for the passover-offerings, for all who were present, to the number of thirty thousand, as well as three thousand bulls. These were from the king's substance. 8 And his princes gave willingly to the people, to the priests, and to the Levites. Hilkiah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, rulers of the house of God, gave to the priests for the passover-offerings two thousand and six hundred small livestock, and three hundred oxen. 9 And also Conaniah, Shemaiah, Nethaneel, his brothers, and Hashabiah, Jehiel, and Jozabad, chief of the Levites, gave to the Levites for passover-offerings five thousand small livestock, and five hundred oxen.

10 So the service was prepared and the priests stood in their place and the Levites in their courses, according to the king's commandment. 11 And they killed the passover, and the priests sprinkled the blood from their hands, and the Levites flayed them. 12 And they removed the burnt-offerings so that they might give according to the divisions of the families of the people to offer to the LORD, as it is written in the book of Moses. And they did so with the oxen. 13 And they roasted the passover with fire according to the ordinance, but the other holy offerings they boiled in pots, in cauldrons, and in pans, and divided them speedily among all the people. 14 And afterward, they made ready for themselves and for the priests, because the priests the sons of Aaron were busied in offering burnt-offerings and the fat until night; therefore, the Levites prepared for themselves and for the priests the sons of Aaron. 15 And the singers the sons of Asaph were in their place according to the commandment of David, Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun the king's seer. And the gatekeepers waited at every gate. They did not need to depart from their service, for their brothers the Levites prepared for them.

16 So all the service of the LORD was prepared the same day to keep the passover and to offer burnt-offerings upon the altar of the LORD according to the commandment of king Josiah. 17 And the children of Israel who were present kept the passover at that time, as well as the feast of unleavened bread for seven days. 18 And there was no passover like that kept in Israel from the days of Samuel the prophet, neither did all the kings of Israel keep such a passover as Josiah kept, with the priests, the Levites, all Judah and Israel who were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 19 In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah this passover was kept.

20 After all this, when Josiah had prepared the temple, Necho king of Egypt came up to fight against Charchemish by the Euphrates. And Josiah went out against him. 21 But he sent ambassadors to him, saying, "What have I to do with you, king of Judah? I do not come against you this day, but against the house with which I have war. For God commanded me to make haste. Forbear from meddling with God, who is with me, so that he may not destroy you." 22 Nevertheless, Josiah would not turn his face from him, but disguised himself that he might fight with him, and did not listen to the words of Necho from the mouth of God and came to fight in the valley of Megiddo. 23 And the archers shot at king Josiah, and the king said to his servants, "Take me away, for I am severely wounded." 24 His servants therefore took him out of that chariot and put him in the second chariot that he had. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died and was buried in one of the sepulchers of his fathers. And all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah. 25 And Jeremiah lamented for Josiah. And all the singing men and the singing women have spoken of Josiah in their lamentations to this day. And they made them an ordinance in Israel. And behold, they are written in the lamentations. 26 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, along with his goodness according to that which was written in the law of the LORD, 27 And his deeds, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah.

[#sch036%breakable]
=== Chapter 36

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehoahaz, succeeding, is deposed by Pharaoh and carried into Egypt, 1-4. Jehoiakim does that which is evil and is carried bound into Babylon, 5-8. Jehoiachin, succeeding, does that which is evil and is brought into Babylon, 9, 10. Zedekiah, succeeding, does that which is evil, despises the prophets, and rebels against Nebuchadnezzar, 11-13. Jerusalem, for the sins of the priests and the people, is wholly destroyed, 14-21. The proclamation of Cyrus, 22, 23._

1 Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah and made him king in his father's stead in Jerusalem. 2 Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. 3 And the king of Egypt deposed him at Jerusalem and imposed upon the land a fine of one hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold. 4 And the king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem and changed his name to Jehoiakim. And Necho took Jehoahaz his brother and carried him to Egypt.

5 Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD his God. 6 Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up against him and bound him in fetters to carry him to Babylon. 7 Nebuchadnezzar also carried some of the vessels of the house of the LORD to Babylon and put them in his temple at Babylon. 8 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, his abominations which he did, and that which was found in him, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. And Jehoiachin his son reigned in his stead.

9 Jehoiachin was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD.

10 And when the year had expired, king Nebuchadnezzar sent and brought him to Babylon with the precious vessels of the house of the LORD, and made Zedekiah his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem.

11 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign, and reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. 12 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD his God and did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet speaking from the mouth of the LORD. 13 And he also rebelled against king Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him swear by God. But he stiffened his neck and hardened his heart from turning to the LORD God of Israel. 14 Moreover, all the chief of the priests and the people transgressed very much after all the abominations of the heathen and polluted the house of the LORD which he had hallowed in Jerusalem.

15 And the LORD God of their fathers sent to them by his messengers, rising up early and sending, because he had compassion on his people and on his dwelling-place. 16 But they mocked the messengers of God, despised his words, and misused his prophets until the wrath of the LORD arose against his people until there was no remedy. 17 Therefore, he brought upon them the king of the Chaldeans, who slew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary and had no compassion upon young man, virgin, old man, or him who stooped for age. He gave them all into his hand. 18 And all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king and of his princes, all these he brought to Babylon. 19 And they burnt the house of God, broke down the wall of Jerusalem, burnt all its palaces with fire, and destroyed all its precious vessels. 20 And those who had escaped from the sword he carried away to Babylon, where they were servants to him and his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Persia, 21 To fulfill the word of the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah until the land had enjoyed her sabbaths. For as long as she lay desolate she rested to fulfill seventy years.

22 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, so that the word of the LORD spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, the LORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying, 23 "Thus says Cyrus king of Persia: 'All the kingdoms of the earth the LORD God of heaven has given me. And he has charged me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Who is there among you of all his people? May the LORD his God be with him and let him go up.'"

[.text-center]
_[End of Tanach reading]_
