////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#second-kings]
== The Second Book of the Kings

*2nd Kings | Βασιλειῶν Δ' | מלכים ב*

[#ski001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_Moab rebels, 1. Ahaziah, sending to Baal-zebub, has his judgment by Elijah, 2-4. Elijah twice brings fire from heaven upon those who were sent by Ahaziah to apprehend him, 5-12. He pities the third captain, and, encouraged by an angel, tells the king about his death, 13-16. Jehoram succeeds Ahaziah, 17, 18._

1 Then Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab. 2 And Ahaziah fell down through a lattice in his upper chamber that was in Samaria and was sick. And he sent messengers and said to them, "Go, inquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron to see if I shall recover from this disease." 3 But the angel of the LORD said to Elijah the Tishbite, "Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria and say to them, 'Is it not because there is not a God in Israel that you go to inquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron?' 4 Now therefore, thus says the LORD: 'You shall not come down from that bed on which you have gone up, but shall surely die.'" And Elijah departed.

5 And when the messengers turned back to him, he said to them, "Why have you now returned?" 6 And they said to him, "There came up a man to meet us and said to us, 'Go, turn back to the king who sent you and say to him, "Thus says the LORD: 'Is it not because there is not a God in Israel that you send to inquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron? Therefore, you shall not come down from that bed on which you have gone up, but shall surely die.'"'" 7 And he said to them, "What manner of man was he who came up to meet you and told you these words?" 8 And they answered him, "He was a hairy man and girt with a girdle of leather around his loins." And he said, "It is Elijah the Tishbite."

9 Then the king sent to him a captain of fifty with his fifty. And he went up to him, and behold, he sat on the top of a hill. And he spoke to him, "You, man of God, the king has said, 'Come down.'" 10 And Elijah answered and said to the captain of fifty, "If I am a man of God, then let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty." And fire came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty.

11 And again he sent to him another captain of fifty with his fifty. And he answered and said to him, "O man of God, thus has the king said: 'Come down quickly.'" 12 And Elijah answered and said to them, "If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty." And the fire of God came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty.

13 And again he sent a third captain of fifty with his fifty. And the third captain of fifty went up, came and fell on his knees before Elijah, and implored him and said to him, "O man of God, I pray you, let my life and the life of these fifty your servants be precious in your sight. 14 Behold, fire came down from heaven and burnt up the two captains of the former fifties with their fifties. Therefore, let my life now be precious in your sight." 15 And the angel of the LORD said to Elijah, "Go down with him. Do not be afraid of him." And he arose and went down with him to the king. 16 And he said to him, "Thus says the LORD: 'Because you have sent messengers to inquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron, is it not because there is no God in Israel to inquire of his word? Therefore, you shall not come down off that bed on which you have gone up, but shall surely die.'"

17 So he died according to the word of the LORD which Elijah had spoken. And Jehoram reigned in his stead in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, because he had no son. 18 Now the rest of the acts of Ahaziah which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

[#ski002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_Elijah, taking his leave of Elisha, divides the Jordan with his mantle, 1-8; and, granting Elisha his request, is taken up by a fiery chariot into heaven, 9-11. Elisha, dividing the Jordan with Elijah's mantle, is acknowledged as his successor, 12-15. The young prophets, hardly obtaining leave to seek Elijah, cannot find him, 16-18. Elisha heals the unwholesome waters with salt, 19-22. Bears destroy the children that mocked Elisha, 23-25._

1 And it came to pass, when the LORD would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal. 2 And Elijah said to Elisha, "Stay here, I pray you, for the LORD has sent me to Beth-el." And Elisha said, "As the LORD lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you." So they went down to Beth-el. 3 And the sons of the prophets who were at Beth-el came forth to Elisha and said to him, "Do you know that the LORD will take away your master from your head today?" And he said, "Yes, I know it. Hold your peace."

4 And Elijah said to him, "Elisha, stay here, I pray you, for the LORD has sent me to Jericho." And he said, "As the LORD lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you." So they came to Jericho. 5 And the sons of the prophets who were at Jericho came to Elisha and said to him, "Do you know that the LORD will take away your master from your head today?" And he answered, "Yes, I know it. Hold your peace." 6 And Elijah said to him, "Stay here, I pray you, for the LORD has sent me to the Jordan." And he said, "As the LORD lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you." And the two of them went on.

7 And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and stood to view afar off. And the two of them stood by the Jordan. 8 And Elijah took his mantle and wrapped it together and smote the waters, and they were divided here and there so that the two of them went over on dry ground.

9 And it came to pass, when they had gone over, that Elijah said to Elisha, "Ask what I shall do for you before I am taken away from you." And Elisha said, "I pray you, let a double portion of your spirit be upon me." 10 And he said, "You have asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if you see me when I am taken from you, it shall be so to you, but if not, it shall not be so." 11 And it came to pass, as they still went on and talked, that behold, there appeared a chariot of fire and horses of fire and parted them both apart. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. 12 And Elisha saw it and he cried, "My father, my father, the chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof." And he saw him no more. And he took hold of his own clothes and rent them in two pieces. 13 He also took up the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and went back and stood by the bank of the Jordan. 14 And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and smote the waters and said, "Where is the LORD God of Elijah?" And when he also had smitten the waters, they parted here and there, and Elisha went over.

15 And when the sons of the prophets who were viewing at Jericho saw him, they said, "The spirit of Elijah rests on Elisha." And they came to meet him and bowed themselves to the ground before him. 16 And they said to him, "Behold now, there are with your servants fifty strong men. Let them go, we pray you, and seek your master, lest perhaps the Spirit of the LORD has taken him up and cast him upon some mountain or into some valley." And he said, "You shall not send." 17 And when they urged him until he was ashamed, he said, "Send." They sent therefore fifty men. And they sought three days, but did not find him. 18 And when they came back to him (for he stayed at Jericho), he said to them, "Did I not say to you, 'Do not go'?"

19 And the men of the city said to Elisha, "Behold, I pray you, the location of this city is pleasant, as my lord sees, but the water is bad and the ground barren." 20 And he said, "Bring me a new cruse and put salt therein." And they brought it to him. 21 And he went forth to the spring of the waters and cast the salt in there and said, "Thus says the LORD: 'I have healed these waters. There shall not be from there any more death or barren land.'" 22 So the waters were healed to this day, according to the saying of Elisha which he spoke.

23 And he went up from there to Beth-el. And as he was going up by the way, little children came forth out of the city and mocked him and said to him, "Go up, you bald-head. Go up, you bald-head." 24 And he turned back, looked at them, and cursed them in the name of the LORD. And two female bears came forth out of the forest and tore forty-two of the children. 25 And he went from there to mount Carmel, and from there he returned to Samaria.

[#ski003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehoram's reign, 1-3. Mesha rebels, 4, 5. Jehoram, with Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom, being distressed for lack of water, by Elisha obtains water and promise of victory, 6-20. The Moabites, deceived by the color of the water, coming to plunder, are overcome, 21-25. The king of Moab, failing in his attempt to break through to the king of Edom, sacrifices his son and raises the siege, 26, 27._

1 Now Jehoram the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah and reigned twelve years. 2 And he wrought evil in the sight of the LORD, but not like his father and his mother, for he put away the image of Baal that his father had made. 3 Nevertheless, he cleaved to the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who made Israel to sin. He did not depart from it.

4 And Mesha king of Moab was a sheep-master, and he rendered to the king of Israel one hundred thousand lambs and one hundred thousand rams, with the wool. 5 But it came to pass, when Ahab was dead, that the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel. 6 And king Jehoram went out of Samaria the same time and numbered all Israel. 7 And he went and sent to Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, saying, "The king of Moab has rebelled against me. Will you go with me against Moab to battle?" And he said, "I will go. I am as you are, my people as your people, and my horses as your horses." 8 And he said, "Which way shall we go up?" And he answered, "The way through the wilderness of Edom."

9 So the king of Israel, the king of Judah, and the king of Edom went. And they made a circuit of seven days' journey, and there was no water for the army and for the livestock that followed them. 10 And the king of Israel said, "Alas! For the LORD has called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab!" 11 But Jehoshaphat said, "Is there not a prophet of the LORD here that we may inquire of the LORD by him?" And one of the king of Israel's servants answered and said, "Here is Elisha the son of Shaphat who poured water on the hands of Elijah." 12 And Jehoshaphat said, "The word of the LORD is with him." So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down to him.

13 And Elisha said to the king of Israel, "What have I to do with you? Go to the prophets of your father and to the prophets of your mother." And the king of Israel said to him, "No, for the LORD has called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab." 14 And Elisha said, "As the LORD of hosts lives, before whom I stand, surely, were it not that I regard the presence of Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, I would not look toward you, nor see you. 15 But now bring me a minstrel." And it came to pass, when the minstrel played, that the hand of the LORD came upon him. 16 And he said, "Thus says the LORD: 'Make this valley full of ditches.' 17 For thus says the LORD: 'You shall not see wind, neither shall you see rain, yet that valley shall be filled with water so that you may drink—you, your livestock, and your beasts. 18 And this is but a light thing in the sight of the LORD. He will deliver the Moabites also into your hand. 19 And you shall smite every fortified city and every choice city, and shall fell every good tree, stop all wells of water, and mar every good piece of land with stones.'" 20 And it came to pass in the morning, when the food-offering was offered, that behold, water came by the way of Edom, and the country was filled with water.

21 And when all the Moabites heard that the kings had come up to fight against them, they gathered all who were able to put on armor and older, and stood in the border. 22 And they rose early in the morning, and the sun shone upon the water. And the Moabites saw the water on the other side as red as blood. 23 And they said, "This is blood. The kings are surely slain and they have smitten one another. Now therefore, Moab, to the plunder." 24 And when they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites rose and smote the Moabites so that they fled before them. And they went forward smiting the Moabites, even in their country. 25 And they beat down the cities, and on every good piece of land every man cast his stone and filled it. And they stopped all the wells of water and felled all the good trees. Only the stones of Kirhara-seth were left, but the slingers surrounded it and smote it. 26 And when the king of Moab saw that the battle was too severe for him, he took with him seven hundred men who drew swords to break through to the king of Edom, but they could not. 27 Then he took his eldest son who was to reign in his stead and offered him for a burnt-offering upon the wall. And there was great indignation against Israel. And they departed from him and returned to their own land.

[#ski004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_Elisha multiplies the widow's oil, 1-7. He obtains a son for the good Shunammite, 8-17. He restores her son when dead, 18-37. At Gilgal he heals the deadly pottage, 38-41. He satisfies a hundred men with twenty loaves, 42-44._

1 Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets to Elisha, saying, "Your servant my husband is dead. And you know that your servant feared the LORD. And the creditor has come to take for himself my two sons to be slaves." 2 And Elisha said to her, "What shall I do for you? Tell me, what do you have in the house?" And she said, "Your servant does not have anything in the house, except for a pot of oil." 3 Then he said, "Go, borrow vessels abroad from all your neighbors, even empty vessels. Do not borrow a few. 4 And when you have come in, you shall shut the door upon you and upon your sons, and shall pour out into all those vessels and set aside that which is full." 5 So she went from him and shut the door upon her and upon her sons, who brought the vessels to her, and she poured out. 6 And it came to pass, when the vessels were full, that she said to her son, "Bring me another vessel." And he said to her, "There is not another vessel." And the oil stopped. 7 Then she came and told the man of God. And he said, "Go, sell the oil and pay your debt, and you and your children shall live on the remainder."

8 And it fell on a day, that Elisha passed to Shunem where a distinguished woman was, and she constrained him to eat bread. And so it was, that as often as he passed by, he turned in there to eat bread. 9 And she said to her husband, "Behold now, I perceive that this is a holy man of God who passes by us continually. 10 Let us make a little chamber, I pray you, on the wall and set for him there a bed, a table, a stool, and a candlestick. And it shall be, when he comes to us, that he shall turn in there."

11 And it fell on a day, that he came there, and he turned into the chamber and lay there. 12 And he said to Gehazi his servant, "Call this Shunamite." And when he had called her, she stood before him. 13 And he said to him, "Now say to her, 'Behold, you have been careful for us with all this care. What is to be done for you? Would you be spoken for to the king, or to the captain of the host?'" And she answered, "I dwell among my own people." 14 And he said, "What then is to be done for her?" And Gehazi answered, "Truly she has no child, and her husband is old." 15 And he said, "Call her." And when he had called her, she stood in the door. 16 And he said, "About this season, according to the time of life, you shall embrace a son." And she said, "No, my lord, man of God, do not lie to your servant."

17 And the woman conceived and bore a son at that season that Elisha had said to her, according to the time of life.

18 And when the child was grown, it happened on a day, that he went out to his father to the reapers. 19 And he said to his father, "My head, my head." And he said to a young man, "Carry him to his mother." 20 And when he had taken him and brought him to his mother, he sat on her knees until noon and then died. 21 And she went up, laid him on the bed of the man of God, shut the door upon him, and went out. 22 And she called to her husband and said, "Send me, I pray you, one of the young men and one of the donkeys so that I may run to the man of God and come back." 23 And he said, "Why will you go to him today? It is neither new-moon, nor sabbath." And she said, "It shall be well." 24 Then she saddled a donkey and said to her servant, "Drive, and go forward. Do not slack your riding for me unless I bid you." 25 So she went and came to the man of God to mount Carmel. And it came to pass, when the man of God saw her afar off, that he said to Gehazi his servant, "Behold, yonder is that Shunamite. 26 Now run, I pray you, to meet her, and say to her, 'Is it well with you? Is it well with your husband? Is it well with the child?'" And she answered, "It is well." 27 And when she came to the man of God to the hill, she caught him by the feet, but Gehazi came near to thrust her away. And the man of God said, "Leave her alone, for her soul is sorrowful within her, and the LORD has hid it from me and has not told me." 28 Then she said, "Did I ask a son from my lord? Did I not say, 'Do not deceive me.'"

29 Then he said to Gehazi, "Gird up your loins and take my staff in your hand and go your way. And if you meet any man, do not salute him. And if anyone salutes you, do not answer him again. And lay my staff upon the face of the child." 30 And the mother of the child said, "As the LORD lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you." And he arose and followed her. 31 And Gehazi passed on before them and laid the staff upon the face of the child, but there was neither voice, nor hearing. Therefore, he went back to meet him and told him, saying, "The child has not awakened."

32 And when Elisha had come into the house, behold, the child was dead and laid upon his bed. 33 He went in therefore, and shut the door upon them both and prayed to the LORD. 34 And he went up and lay upon the child, and put his mouth upon his mouth, his eyes upon his eyes, and his hands upon his hands. And he stretched himself upon the child, and the flesh of the child became warm. 35 Then he returned and walked in the house to and fro, and went up and stretched himself upon him. And the child sneezed seven times, and the child opened his eyes. 36 And he called Gehazi and said, "Call this Shunamite." So he called her. And when she had come in to him, he said, "Take up your son." 37 Then she went in, fell at his feet, and bowed herself to the ground. Then she took up her son and went out.

38 And Elisha came back to Gilgal. And there was a famine in the land. And the sons of the prophets were sitting before him. And he said to his servant, "Set on the great pot and boil pottage for the sons of the prophets." 39 And one went out into the field to gather herbs, found a wild vine, gathered his lap full of wild gourds from it, and came and shred them into the pot of pottage, for they did not know them. 40 So they poured out some for the men to eat. And it came to pass, as they were eating of the pottage, that they cried out and said, "O man of God, there is death in the pot." And they could not eat it. 41 But he said, "Then bring meal." And he cast it into the pot and he said, "Pour some out for the people so that they may eat." And there was no harm in the pot.

42 And there came a man from Baal-shalisha and brought the man of God bread of the first fruits, twenty loaves of barley and full heads of grain in its husk. And he said, "Give it to the people so that they may eat." 43 And his servant said, "What, should I set this before one hundred men?" He said again, "Give it to the people so that they may eat, for thus says the LORD: 'They shall eat and shall have some left over.'" 44 So he set it before them, and they ate and had some left over, according to the word of the LORD.

[#ski005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_Naaman, by the report of a captive girl, is sent to Samaria to be cured of his leprosy, 1-7. Elisha, sending him to the Jordan, cures him, 8-14. He refuses Naaman's gifts, but allows him to take some of the earth, 15-19. Gehazi, abusing his master's name to Naaman, is smitten with leprosy, 20-27._

1 Now Naaman, captain of the army of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master and highly esteemed, because by him the LORD had given deliverance to Syria. He was also a mighty man in valor, but he was a leper. 2 And the Syrians had gone out by companies and had taken away a little girl captive out of the land of Israel, and she waited on Naaman's wife. 3 And she said to her mistress, "I wish that my lord was with the prophet who is in Samaria! For he would recover him of his leprosy." 4 And someone went in and told his lord, saying, "In this manner the girl spoke who is from the land of Israel." 5 And the king of Syria said, "Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel." And he departed and took with him ten talents of silver, six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes of clothing.

6 And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, "And now when this letter has come to you, behold, I have sent Naaman my servant to you so that you may recover him of his leprosy." 7 And it came to pass, when the king of Israel had read the letter, that he rent his clothes and said, "Am I God, to kill and to make alive, that this man sends to me to recover a man of his leprosy? Therefore, consider, I pray you, and see how he seeks a quarrel against me."

8 And it was so, when Elisha the man of God had heard that the king of Israel had rent his clothes, that he sent to the king, saying, "Why have you rent your clothes? I pray you, let him come to me and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel." 9 So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot and stood at the door of the house of Elisha. 10 And Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, "Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh shall come back to you and you shall be clean." 11 But Naaman was angry and went away and said, "Behold, I thought, 'He will surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of the LORD his God, strike his hand over the place, and recover the leper.' 12 Are Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, not better than all the waters of Israel? May I not wash in them and be clean?" So he turned and went away in a rage. 13 And his servants came near and spoke to him and said, "My father, if the prophet had bid you to do some great thing, would you not have done it? How much rather then, when he says to you, 'Wash, and be clean'?" 14 Then he went down and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God, and his flesh came back like the flesh of a little child, and he was clean.

15 And he returned to the man of God—he and all his company—and came and stood before him. And he said, "Behold, now I know that there is no God in all the earth except in Israel. Now therefore, I pray you, take a blessing from your servant." 16 But he said, "As the LORD lives, before whom I stand, I will receive none." And he urged him to take it, but he refused. 17 And Naaman said, "Shall there not then, I pray you, be given to your servant two mules' burden of earth? For your servant will from now on offer neither burnt-offering nor sacrifice to other gods, but to the LORD. 18 In this thing may the LORD pardon your servant: when my master goes into the house of Rimmon to worship there and he leans on my hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, when I bow down myself in the house of Rimmon, may the LORD pardon your servant in this thing." 19 And he said to him, "Go in peace." So he departed from him a little way.

20 But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God, thought, "Behold, my master has spared Naaman this Syrian in not receiving at his hands that which he brought. But as the LORD lives, I will run after him and take something from him." 21 So Gehazi followed after Naaman. And when Naaman saw him running after him, he alighted down from the chariot to meet him and said, "Is all well?" 22 And he said, "All is well. My master has sent me, saying, 'Behold, even now two young men from the sons of the prophets have come to me from mount Ephraim. Give them, I pray you, a talent of silver and two changes of garments.'" 23 And Naaman said, "Be content, take two talents." And he urged him, and bound two talents of silver in two bags with two changes of garments and laid them upon two of his servants. And they bore them before him. 24 And when he came to the tower, he took [the things] from their hand and stored them in the house. And he let the men go, and they departed. 25 But he went in and stood before his master, and Elisha said to him, "Where did you come from, Gehazi?" And he said, "Your servant went nowhere."

26 And he said to him, "Did my heart not go with you when the man turned back from his chariot to meet you? Is it a time to receive money and to receive garments, olive-groves, vineyards, sheep, oxen, men-servants, and women-servants? 27 Therefore, the leprosy of Naaman shall cleave to you and to your offspring forever." And he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow.

[#ski006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_Elisha, giving leave to the young prophets to enlarge their dwellings, causes iron to float, 1-7. He discloses the king of Syria's counsel, 8-12. The army which was sent to Dothan to apprehend Elisha is smitten with blindness, 13-18. Being brought into Samaria, they are dismissed in peace, 19-23. The famine in Samaria causes women to eat their own children, 24-29. The king sends to slay Elisha, 30-33._

1 And the sons of the prophets said to Elisha, "Behold now, the place where we dwell with you is too narrow for us. 2 Let us go, we pray you, to the Jordan and each take from there a beam, and let us make us a place there where we may dwell." And he answered, "Go." 3 And one said, "Be content, I pray you, and go with your servants." And he answered, "I will go." 4 So he went with them. And when they came to the Jordan, they cut down wood. 5 But as one was felling a beam, the ax head fell into the water, and he cried and said, "Alas, master! For it was borrowed." 6 And the man of God said, "Where did it fall?" And he showed him the place. And he cut down a stick and cast it in there, and the iron floated. 7 Therefore, he said, "Take it up to you." And he put out his hand and took it.

8 Then the king of Syria warred against Israel and took counsel with his servants, saying, "In such and such a place my camp shall be." 9 And the man of God sent to the king of Israel, saying, "Beware that you do not pass such a place, for there the Syrians have come down." 10 And the king of Israel sent to the place which the man of God told him and warned him of. And he guarded himself there, not once or twice.

11 Therefore, the heart of the king of Syria was greatly troubled for this thing. And he called his servants and said to them, "Will you not show me which of us is for the king of Israel?" 12 And one of his servants said, "No one, my lord, O king, but Elisha, the prophet who is in Israel, tells the king of Israel the words that you speak in your bed-chamber." 13 And he said, "Go, and spy where he is so that I may send and bring him." And it was told to him, saying, "Behold, he is in Dothan." 14 Therefore, he sent there horses, chariots, and a great host, and they came by night and encompassed the city.

15 And when the servant of the man of God had risen early and gone forth, behold, a host compassed the city both with horses and chariots. And his servant said to him, "Alas, my master! What shall we do?" 16 And he answered, "Do not fear, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them." 17 And Elisha prayed and said, "LORD, I pray you, open his eyes so that he may see." And the LORD opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw, and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire around Elisha. 18 And when they came down to him, Elisha prayed to the LORD and said, "Smite this people, I pray you, with blindness." And he smote them with blindness according to the word of Elisha. 19 And Elisha said to them, "This is not the way, neither is this the city. Follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom you seek." But he led them to Samaria.

20 And it came to pass, when they had come into Samaria, that Elisha said, "LORD, open the eyes of these men so that they may see." And the LORD opened their eyes, and they saw, and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria. 21 And the king of Israel said to Elisha when he saw them, "My father, shall I smite them? Shall I smite them?" 22 And he answered, "You shall not smite them. Would you smite those whom you have taken captive with your sword and with your bow? Set bread and water before them so that they may eat and drink and go to their master." 23 And he prepared great provision for them. And when they had eaten and drank, he sent them away, and they went to their master. So the bands of Syria no longer came into the land of Israel.

24 And it came to pass after this, that Ben-hadad king of Syria gathered all his army and went up and besieged Samaria. 25 And there was a great famine in Samaria. And behold, they besieged it until a donkey's head was sold for eighty pieces of silver and the fourth part of a kab of dove's dung for five pieces of silver. 26 And as the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, a woman cried to him, saying, "Help, my lord, O king." 27 And he said, "If the LORD does not help you, from where shall I help you? Out of the barn-floor, or out of the wine-press?" 28 And the king said to her, "What ails you?" And she answered, "This woman said to me, 'Give your son so that we may eat him today, and we will eat my son tomorrow.' 29 So we boiled my son and ate him. And I said to her on the next day, 'Give your son so that we may eat him.' And she has hid her son." 30 And it came to pass, when the king heard the words of the woman, that he rent his clothes. And he passed by upon the wall, and the people looked, and behold, he had sackcloth within upon his flesh. 31 Then he said, "May God do so and more also to me, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat stands on him this day."

32 But Elisha sat in his house, and the elders sat with him, and the king sent a man from before him. But before the messenger came to him, he said to the elders, "See how this son of a murderer has sent to take away my head? Look, when the messenger comes, shut the door and hold the door firmly against him. Is the sound of his master's feet not behind him?" 33 And while he still talked with them, behold, the messenger came down to him and said, "Behold, this evil is from the LORD. Why should I wait for the LORD any longer?"

[#ski007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_Elisha prophesies incredible plenty in Samaria, 1, 2. Four lepers, venturing on the host of the Syrians, bring tidings of their flight, 3-11. The king, finding by spies the news to be true, plunders the tents of the Syrians, 12-16. The lord who would not believe the prophecy of plenty, having the charge of the gate, is trodden to death by a crowd, 17-20._

1 Then Elisha said, "Hear the word of the LORD. Thus says the LORD: 'Tomorrow about this time a measure of fine flour shall be sold for a shekel and two measures of barley for a shekel in the gate of Samaria.'" 2 Then a lord on whose hand the king leaned answered the man of God and said, "Behold, if the LORD would make windows in heaven, might this thing be?" And he said, "Behold, you shall see it with your eyes, but shall not eat of it."

3 And there were four leprous men at the entrance of the gate. And they said to one another, "Why do we sit here until we die? 4 If we say, 'We will enter into the city,' then the famine is in the city, and we shall die there. And if we sit still here, we die also. Now therefore, come, and let us fall to the army of the Syrians. If they save us alive, we shall live, and if they kill us, we shall but die." 5 And they rose in the twilight to go to the camp of the Syrians. And when they had come to the uttermost part of the camp of Syria, behold, there was no man there. 6 (For the Lord had made the army of the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots and a noise of horses, even the noise of a great army. And they said to one another, "Behold, the king of Israel has hired against us the kings of the Hittites and the kings of the Egyptians to come upon us." 7 Therefore, they arose and fled in the twilight and left their tents, their horses, and their donkeys, even the camp as it was, and fled for their life.) 8 And when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp, they went into one tent, ate and drank, and carried from there silver, gold, and clothing, and went and hid it. And they came back, entered into another tent, and carried from there also, and went and hid it.

9 Then they said to one another, "We do not do right. This day is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace. If we wait until the morning light, some mischief will come upon us. Now therefore, come, so that we may go and tell the king's household." 10 So they came and called to the gatekeeper of the city, and told told him, saying, "We came to the camp of the Syrians, and behold, there was no man there, neither voice of man, but horses tied, donkeys tied, and the tents as they were." 11 And he called the gatekeepers, and they told it to the king's house within. 12 And the king arose in the night and said to his servants, "I will now show you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that we are hungry; therefore, they have gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the field, saying, 'When they come out of the city, we shall take them alive and get into the city.'" 13 And one of his servants answered and said, "Let some take, I pray you, five of the horses that remain, which are left in the city (behold, they are as all the multitude of Israel who are left in it, behold, I say, they are even as all the multitude of the Israelites who are consumed), and let us send and see." 14 They took therefore two chariots with horses. And the king sent after the host of the Syrians, saying, "Go and see."

15 And they went after them to the Jordan. And behold, the whole way was full of garments and vessels, which the Syrians had cast away in their haste. And the messengers returned and told the king.

16 And the people went out and plundered the tents of the Syrians. So a measure of fine flour was sold for a shekel and two measures of barley for a shekel, according to the word of the LORD. 17 And the king appointed the lord on whose hand he leaned to have the charge of the gate. And the people trod upon him in the gate and he died, as the man of God had said, who spoke when the king came down to him. 18 And it came to pass as the man of God had spoken to the king, saying, "Two measures of barley for a shekel and a measure of fine flour for a shekel shall be tomorrow about this time in the gate of Samaria." 19 And that lord answered the man of God and said, "Now, behold, if the LORD should make windows in heaven, might such a thing be?" And he said, "Behold, you shall see it with your eyes, but shall not eat of it." 20 And so it happened to him, for the people trod upon him in the gate and he died.

[#ski008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_The Shunammite, having left her country seven years to avoid the forewarned famine, for Elisha's miracle's sake has her land restored by the king, 1-6. Hazael, being sent with a present by Ben-hadad to Elisha at Damascus, after he had heard the prophecy, kills his master and succeeds him, 7-15. Jehoram's wicked reign in Judah, 16-19. Edom and Libnah revolt, 20-22. Ahaziah succeeds Jehoram, 23, 24. Ahaziah's wicked reign, 25-27. He goes to Jezreel and visits Joram, who was wounded, 28, 29._

1 Then Elisha spoke to the woman, whose son he had restored to life, saying, "Arise, and go—you and your household—and sojourn wherever you can sojourn, for the LORD has called for a famine, and it shall also come upon the land seven years." 2 And the woman arose and did according to the saying of the man of God. And she went with her household and sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years. 3 And it came to pass at the seven years' end, that the woman returned from the land of the Philistines. And she went forth to cry to the king for her house and for her land. 4 And the king talked with Gehazi the servant of the man of God, saying, "Tell me, I pray you, all the great things that Elisha has done." 5 And it came to pass, as he was telling the king how [Elisha] had restored a dead body to life, that behold, the woman, whose son he had restored to life, cried to the king for her house and for her land. And Gehazi said, "My lord, O king, this is the woman and this is her son whom Elisha restored to life." 6 And when the king asked the woman, she told him. So the king appointed to her a certain officer, saying, "Restore all that was hers and all the fruits of the field since the day that she left the land even until now."

7 And Elisha came to Damascus. And Ben-hadad the king of Syria was sick. And it was told to him, saying, "The man of God has come here." 8 And the king said to Hazael, "Take a present in your hand, and go, meet the man of God, and inquire of the LORD by him, saying, 'Shall I recover of this disease?'" 9 So Hazael went to meet him and took a present with him, even forty camels' burden of every good thing of Damascus, and came and stood before him and said, "Your son Ben-hadad king of Syria has sent me to you, saying, 'Shall I recover of this disease?'" 10 And Elisha said to him, "Go, say to him, 'You may certainly recover,' but the LORD has shown me that he shall surely die." 11 And he settled his countenance steadfastly until he was ashamed. And the man of God wept. 12 And Hazael said, "Why does my lord weep?" And he answered, "Because I know the evil that you will do to the children of Israel: you will set their strongholds on fire and you will slay their young men with the sword, dash their children, and rip up their women with child." 13 And Hazael said, "But what, is your servant a dog that he should do this great thing?" And Elisha answered, "The LORD has shown me that you will be king over Syria." 14 So he departed from Elisha and came to his master, who said to him, "What did Elisha say to you?" And he answered, "He told me that you should surely recover." 15 And it came to pass on the next day, that he took a thick cloth, dipped it in water, and spread it on his face so that he died. And Hazael reigned in his stead.

16 And in the fifth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel (Jehoshaphat being then king of Judah), Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah began to reign. 17 He was thirty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem. 18 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab, for the daughter of Ahab was his wife. And he did evil in the sight of the LORD. 19 Yet the LORD would not destroy Judah for David his servant's sake, as he promised him to give a light to him and to his children always.

20 In his days, Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah and made a king over themselves. 21 So Joram went over to Zair, and all the chariots with him. And he rose by night and smote the Edomites who encompassed him and the captains of the chariots, and the people fled into their tents. 22 Yet Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah to this day. Then Libnah revolted at the same time. 23 And the rest of the acts of Joram and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

24 And Joram slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead.

25 In the twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel, Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah began to reign. 26 Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Athaliah, the daughter of Omri king of Israel. 27 And he walked in the way of the house of Ahab and did evil in the sight of the LORD, as the house of Ahab did, for he was the son-in-law of the house of Ahab.

28 And he went with Joram the son of Ahab to the war against Hazael king of Syria in Ramoth-gilead, and the Syrians wounded Joram. 29 And king Joram went back to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him at Ramah when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. And Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel because he was sick.

[#ski009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_Elisha sends a young prophet with instructions to anoint Jehu at Ramoth-gilead, 1-3. The prophet, having done his errand, flees, 4-10. Jehu, being made king by the soldiers, kills Joram in the field of Naboth, 11-26. Ahaziah is slain at Gur and buried at Jerusalem, 27-29. Proud Jezebel is thrown down out of a window and eaten by dogs, 30-37._

1 And Elisha the prophet called one of the children of the prophets and said to him, "Gird up your loins, take this vial of oil in your hand, and go to Ramoth-gilead. 2 And when you arrive, look for Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshi, and go in, make him rise up from among his brothers, and carry him to an inner chamber. 3 Then take the vial of oil and pour it on his head and say, 'Thus says the LORD: "I have anointed you king over Israel."' Then open the door and flee, and do not wait."

4 So the young man, even the young man the prophet, went to Ramoth-gilead. 5 And when he came, behold, the captains of the host were sitting, and he said, "I have an errand to you, O captain." And Jehu said, "To which of us all?" And he said, "To you, O captain." 6 And he arose, went into the house, and he poured the oil on his head, and said to him, "Thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'I have anointed you king over the people of the LORD, even over Israel. [[ski009-007]]7 And you shall smite the house of Ahab your master so that I may avenge the blood of my servants the prophets and the blood of all the servants of the LORD at the hand of Jezebel. 8 For the whole house of Ahab shall perish. And I will cut off from Ahab the males and him who is shut up and him who is left at large in Israel. 9 And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah. 10 And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the portion of Jezreel, and there shall be no one to bury her.'" And he opened the door and fled.

11 Then Jehu came forth to the servants of his lord. And one of them said to him, "Is all well? Why did this mad man come to you?" And he said to them, "You know the man and how he talks." 12 And they said, "It is false. Tell us now." And he said, "In this manner he spoke to me, saying, 'Thus says the LORD: "I have anointed you king over Israel."'" 13 Then they hastened, and every man took his garment, put it under him on the top of the stairs, and blew with trumpets, saying, "Jehu is king."

14 So Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi conspired against Joram. (Now Joram had kept Ramoth-gilead—he and all Israel—because of Hazael king of Syria. 15 But king Joram had returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him when he fought with Hazael king of Syria.) And Jehu said, "If this is how you would have it, then let no one go forth nor escape from the city to go to tell it in Jezreel." 16 So Jehu rode in a chariot and went to Jezreel, for Joram lay there. And Ahaziah king of Judah had come down to see Joram.

17 And there stood a watchman on the tower in Jezreel, and he spied the company of Jehu as he came and said, "I see a company." And Joram said, "Take a horseman and send to meet them, and let him say, 'Is it peace?'" 18 So a horseman went to meet him and said, "Thus says the king: 'Is it peace?'" And Jehu said, "What have you to do with peace? Turn behind me." And the watchman reported, saying, "The messenger came to them, but he does not return." 19 Then he sent out a second horseman, who came to them and said, "Thus says the king: 'Is it peace?'" And Jehu answered, "What have you to do with peace? Turn behind me." 20 And the watchman reported, saying, "He came even to them and does not return. And the driving is like the driving of Jehu the son of Nimshi, for he drives furiously."

21 And Joram said, "Make ready." And his chariot was made ready. And Joram king of Israel and Ahaziah king of Judah went out, each in his chariot, and they went out against Jehu and met him in the portion of Naboth the Jezreelite. 22 And it came to pass, when Joram saw Jehu, that he said, "Is it peace, Jehu?" And he answered, "What peace, so long as the lewd acts of your mother Jezebel and her witchcrafts are so many?" 23 And Joram turned his hands and fled and said to Ahaziah, "There is treachery, O Ahaziah." 24 And Jehu drew a bow with his full strength and smote Jehoram between his arms. The arrow went out at his heart, and he sunk down in his chariot. 25 Then Jehu said to Bidkar his captain, "Take him up and cast him into the portion of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite. For remember how, when you and I rode together after Ahab his father, the LORD laid this burden upon him: 26 'Surely I saw yesterday the blood of Naboth and the blood of his sons,' says the LORD, 'and I will requite you in this plat,' says the LORD. Now therefore, take him and cast him into the plat of ground, according to the word of the LORD."

27 But when Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this, he fled by the way of the garden house. And Jehu followed him and said, "Smite him also in the chariot." And they did so at the going up to Gur, which is by Ibleam. And he fled to Megiddo and died there. 28 And his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem and buried him in his sepulcher with his fathers in the city of David.

29 And in the eleventh year of Joram the son of Ahab, Ahaziah began to reign over Judah.

30 And when Jehu had come to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it. And she painted her face, adorned her head, and looked out a window. 31 And as Jehu entered the gate, she said, "Did Zimri have peace, who slew his master?" 32 And he lifted up his face to the window and said, "Who is on my side? Who?" And two or three eunuchs looked out to him.

33 And he said, "Throw her down." So they threw her down. And some of her blood was sprinkled on the wall and on the horses. And he trod her under foot. 34 And when he had come in, he ate and drank, and said, "Go, see now this cursed woman and bury her, for she is a king's daughter." 35 And they went to bury her, but they found no more of her than the skull, the feet, and the palms of her hands. 36 Therefore, they came back and told him. And he said, "This is the word of the LORD which he spoke by his servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, 'In the portion of Jezreel, dogs shall eat the flesh of Jezebel. 37 And the carcass of Jezebel shall be as dung upon the face of the field in the portion of Jezreel so that they shall not say, "This is Jezebel."'"

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.7]*: Quoted in xref:#rev019-002[Revelation 19:2].

[#ski010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehu, by his letters, causes seventy of Ahab's children to be beheaded, 1-7. He excuses the fact by the prophecy of Elijah, 8-11. At the shearing house he slays forty-two of Ahaziah's brothers, 12-14. He takes Jehonadab into his company, 15-17. By subtlety he destroys all the worshipers of Baal, 18-28. Jehu follows Jeroboam's sins, 29-31. Hazael oppresses Israel, 32, 33. Jehoahaz succeeds Jehu, 34-36._

1 And Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wrote letters and sent to Samaria, to the rulers of Jezreel, to the elders, and to those who brought up Ahab's children, saying, 2 "Now as soon as this letter comes to you, seeing your master's sons are with you and there are with you chariots and horses, a fortified city also, and armor, 3 Choose the best and fittest of your master's sons, set him on his father's throne, and fight for your master's house." 4 But they were exceedingly afraid and said, "Behold, two kings did not stand before him. How then shall we stand?" 5 And he who was over the house and he who was over the city, the elders also, and those who brought up the children, sent to Jehu, saying, "We are your servants and will do all that you shall bid us. We will not make any king. Do that which is good in your eyes." 6 Then he wrote a letter the second time to them, saying, "If you are mine and if you will listen to my voice, take the heads of the men your master's sons and come to me to Jezreel by tomorrow this time." Now the king's sons, being seventy persons, were with the great men of the city who brought them up. 7 And it came to pass, when the letter came to them, that they took the king's sons and slew them, seventy persons, and put their heads in baskets and sent them to him to Jezreel. 8 And a messenger came and told him, saying, "They have brought the heads of the king's sons." And he said, "Lay them in two heaps at the entrance of the gate until the morning." 9 And it came to pass in the morning, that he went out and stood, and said to all the people, "You are righteous. Behold, I conspired against my master and slew him. But who slew all these? 10 Know now that there shall fall to the earth nothing of the word of the LORD which the LORD spoke concerning the house of Ahab, for the LORD has done that which he spoke by his servant Elijah." 11 So Jehu slew all who remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel and all his great men, his kinsmen, and his priests until he left him without a remnant.

12 And he arose and departed and came to Samaria. And as he was at the shearing-house on the way, 13 Jehu met with the brothers of Ahaziah king of Judah and said, "Who are you?" And they answered, "We are the brothers of Ahaziah, and we go down to salute the children of the king and the children of the queen." 14 And he said, "Take them alive." And they took them alive and slew them at the pit of the shearing-house, even forty-two men. He did not leave any of them.

15 And when he had departed from there, he met Jehonadab the son of Rechab coming to meet him. And he saluted him and said to him, "Is your heart right, as my heart is with your heart?" And Jehonadab answered, "It is." "If it is, give me your hand." And he gave him his hand, and he took him up to him into the chariot. 16 And he said, "Come with me and see my zeal for the LORD." So they made him ride in his chariot. 17 And when he came to Samaria, he slew all who remained to Ahab in Samaria until he had destroyed him, according to the saying of the LORD which he spoke to Elijah.

18 And Jehu convened all the people and said to them, "Ahab served Baal a little, but Jehu shall serve him much. 19 Now therefore, call to me all the prophets of Baal, all his servants, and all his priests. Let no one be lacking, for I have a great sacrifice to do to Baal. Whoever is lacking, he shall not live." But Jehu did it in subtlety to the intent that he might destroy the worshipers of Baal. 20 And Jehu said, "Proclaim a solemn assembly for Baal." And they proclaimed it. 21 And Jehu sent throughout all Israel, and all the worshipers of Baal came so that there was not a man left who did not come. And they came into the house of Baal. And the house of Baal was full from one end to another. 22 And he said to him who was over the wardrobe, "Bring forth clothing for all the worshipers of Baal." And he brought forth clothing for them. 23 And Jehu and Jehonadab the son of Rechab went into the house of Baal and said to the worshipers of Baal, "Search, and see that there are here with you none of the servants of the LORD, but the worshipers of Baal only." 24 And when they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt-offerings, Jehu appointed eighty men outside and said, "If any of the men whom I have brought into your hands escape, he who lets him go, his life shall be for the life of him."

25 And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, that Jehu said to the guard and to the captains, "Go in and slay them. Let none come forth." And they smote them with the edge of the sword. And the guard and the captains cast them out and went to the city of the house of Baal. 26 And they brought forth the images out of the house of Baal and burned them. 27 And they broke down the image of Baal. Then they broke down the house of Baal and made it a latrine-house to this day.

28 Thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel. 29 Yet from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin, Jehu did not depart from after them, namely, the golden calves that were in Beth-el and that were in Dan. 30 And the LORD said to Jehu, "Because you have done well in executing that which is right in my eyes and have done to the house of Ahab according to all that was in my heart, your children of the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel." 31 But Jehu took no heed to walk in the law of the LORD God of Israel with all his heart, for he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam, who made Israel to sin.

32 In those days the LORD began to cut Israel short. And Hazael smote them in all the borders of Israel: 33 From the Jordan eastward, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, the Reubenites, and the Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the Arnon River, even Gilead and Bashan.

34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehu and all that he did and all his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 35 And Jehu slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son reigned in his stead. 36 And the time that Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty-eight years.

[#ski011%breakable]
=== Chapter 11

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehoash, being saved by Jehosheba his aunt from Athaliah's massacre of the royal family, is hid six years in the house of God, 1-3. Jehoiada, giving order to the captains, in the seventh year anoints him king, 4-12. Athaliah is slain, 13-16. Jehoiada restores the worship of God, 17-21._

1 And when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the royal family. 2 But Jehosheba, the daughter of king Joram, sister of Ahaziah, took Joash the son of Ahaziah and stole him from among the king's sons who were slain. And they hid him, even him and his nurse, in the bed-chamber from Athaliah so that he was not slain. 3 And he was hid with her in the house of the LORD six years. And Athaliah reigned over the land.

4 And in the seventh year Jehoiada sent and took the rulers over hundreds, with the captains and the guard, and brought them to him into the house of the LORD. Then he made a covenant with them and made them swear an oath in the house of the LORD and showed them the king's son. 5 And he commanded them, saying, "This is the thing that you shall do: a third part of you who enter in on the sabbath shall even be keepers of the watch of the king's house, 6 And a third part shall be at the gate of Sur, and a third part at the gate behind the guard. Thus you shall keep the watch of the house so that it is not broken down. 7 And two parts of all you who go forth on the sabbath, even they shall keep the watch of the house of the LORD around the king. 8 And you shall surround the king, each with his weapons in his hand. And he who comes within the ranges, let him be slain. And be with the king as he goes out and as he comes in."

9 And the captains over the hundreds did according to all things that Jehoiada the priest commanded. And they each took his men who were to come in on the sabbath, with those who should go out on the sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest. 10 And to the captains over hundreds the priest gave king David's spears and shields that were in the temple of the LORD. 11 And the guard stood, each with his weapons in his hand, around the king, from the right corner of the temple to the left corner of the temple, along by the altar and the temple. 12 And he brought forth the king's son, put the crown upon him, and gave him the testimony. And they made him king and anointed him, and they clapped their hands and said, "God save the king."

13 And when Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, she came to the people into the temple of the LORD. 14 And when she looked, behold, the king stood by a pillar, as the manner was, and the princes and the trumpeters by the king, and all the people of the land rejoiced and blew with trumpets. And Athaliah rent her clothes and cried, "Treason, treason!" 15 But Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of the hundreds, the officers of the host, and said to them, "Bring her forth outside the ranges and kill with the sword him who follows her." For the priest had said, "Do not let her be slain in the house of the LORD." 16 So they laid hands on her, and she went by the way by which the horses came into the king's house. And there she was slain.

17 And Jehoiada made a covenant between the LORD and the king and the people, that they should be the LORD'S people, between the king also and the people. 18 And all the people of the land went into the house of Baal and broke it down. His altars and his images they broke wholly in pieces and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. And the priest appointed officers over the house of the LORD. 19 And he took the rulers over hundreds, the captains, the guard, and all the people of the land, and they brought the king down from the house of the LORD and came by the way of the gate of the guard to the king's house. And he sat on the throne of the kings. 20 And all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet, because they slew Athaliah with the sword at the king's house. 21 Jehoash was seven years old when he began to reign.

[#ski012%breakable]
=== Chapter 12

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehoash reigns well all the days of Jehoiada, 1-3. He gives order for the repair of the temple, 4-16. Hazael is diverted from Jerusalem by a present of the hallowed treasures, 17, 18. Jehoash being slain, Amaziah succeeds him, 19-21._

1 In the seventh year of Jehu, Jehoash began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Zibiah of Beer-sheba. 2 And Jehoash did that which was right in the sight of the LORD all his days wherein Jehoiada the priest instructed him. 3 But the high places were not taken away. The people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.

4 And Jehoash said to the priests, "All the money of the dedicated things that is brought into the house of the LORD, even the money of everyone who passes the account, the money that every man is set at, and all the money that comes into any man's heart to bring into the house of the LORD, 5 Let the priests receive it, each from his acquaintance, and let them repair the breaches of the house wherever any breach is found."

6 But it was so, that in the twenty-third year of king Jehoash the priests had not repaired the breaches of the house. 7 Then king Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest and the other priests and said to them, "Why do you not repair the breaches of the house? Now therefore, receive no more money from your acquaintance, but deliver it for the breaches of the house." 8 And the priests consented to receive no more money from the people, neither to repair the breaches of the house.

9 But Jehoiada the priest took a chest, bored a hole in its lid, and set it beside the altar, on the right side as one comes into the house of the LORD. And the priests who kept the door put in it all the money that was brought into the house of the LORD. 10 And it was so, when they saw that there was much money in the chest, that the king's scribe and the high priest came up, and they put it up in bags and counted the money that was found in the house of the LORD. 11 And they gave the money, being counted, into the hands of those who did the work, who had the oversight of the house of the LORD. And they laid it out to the carpenters and builders who wrought upon the house of the LORD, 12 And to masons and hewers of stone, and for buying timber and hewed stone to repair the breaches of the house of the LORD, and for all that was laid out for the house to repair it. 13 Yet, there were not made for the house of the LORD bowls of silver, snuffers, basins, trumpets, any vessels of gold, or vessels of silver of the money that was brought into the house of the LORD. 14 But they gave that to the workmen, and with it repaired the house of the LORD. 15 Moreover, they did not reckon with the men, into whose hand they delivered the money to be bestowed on workmen, for they dealt faithfully. 16 The trespass-money and sin-money was not brought into the house of the LORD. It was the priests'.

17 Then Hazael king of Syria went up and fought against Gath and took it. And Hazael set his face to go up to Jerusalem. 18 And Jehoash king of Judah took all the hallowed things that Jehoshaphat, Jehoram, and Ahaziah, his fathers, kings of Judah, had dedicated, his own hallowed things, and all the gold that was found in the treasures of the house of the LORD and in the king's house, and sent it to Hazael king of Syria. And he went away from Jerusalem.

19 And the rest of the acts of Joash and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 20 And his servants arose and made a conspiracy and slew Joash in the house of Millo, which goes down to Silla. 21 For his servants, Jozachar the son of Shimeath and Jehozabad the son of Shomer, smote him, and he died. And they buried him with his fathers in the city of David. And Amaziah his son reigned in his stead.

[#ski013%breakable]
=== Chapter 13

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehoahaz's wicked reign, 1, 2. Jehoahaz, oppressed by Hazael, is relieved by prayer, 3-7. Joash succeeds him, 8, 9. His wicked reign, 10, 11. Jeroboam succeeds him, 12, 13. Elisha, dying, prophesies to Joash three victories over the Syrians, 14-19. While the Moabites invade the land, Elisha's bones raise a dead man, 20, 21. Joash gets three victories over Ben-hadad, 22-25._

1 In the twenty-third year of Joash the son of Ahaziah king of Judah, Jehoahaz the son of Jehu began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned seventeen years. 2 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD and followed the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who made Israel to sin. He did not depart from it. 3 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of Hazael king of Syria and into the hand of Ben-hadad the son of Hazael all their days. 4 And Jehoahaz implored the LORD, and the LORD listened to him, for he saw the oppression of Israel because the king of Syria oppressed them. 5 (And the LORD gave Israel a savior so that they went out from under the hand of the Syrians, and the children of Israel dwelt in their tents as before. 6 Nevertheless, they did not depart from the sins of the house of Jeroboam who made Israel sin, but walked in them. And the grove also remained in Samaria.) 7 For he did not leave to Jehoahaz any army except fifty horsemen, ten chariots, and ten thousand footmen, for the king of Syria had destroyed them and made them like the dust by threshing. 8 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz and all that he did and his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 9 And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And Joash his son reigned in his stead.

10 In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and he reigned sixteen years. 11 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who made Israel sin, but he walked in them. 12 And the rest of the acts of Joash and all that he did and his might with which he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 13 And Joash slept with his fathers, and Jeroboam sat upon his throne. And Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel.

14 Now Elisha had fallen sick with his disease of which he died. And Joash the king of Israel came down to him and wept over his face and said, "O my father, my father, the chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof." 15 And Elisha said to him, "Take a bow and arrows." And he took a bow and arrows. 16 And he said to the king of Israel, "Put your hand upon the bow." And he put his hand upon it. And Elisha put his hands upon the king's hands. 17 And he said, "Open the window eastward." And he opened it. Then Elisha said, "Shoot." And he shot. And he said, "The arrow of the LORD'S deliverance, and the arrow of deliverance from Syria, for you shall smite the Syrians in Aphek until you have consumed them." 18 And he said, "Take the arrows." And he took them. And he said to the king of Israel, "Smite upon the ground." And he smote three times and ceased. 19 And the man of God was angry with him and said, "You should have smitten five or six times. Then you would have smitten Syria until you had consumed it, whereas now you shall smite Syria only three times."

20 And Elisha died, and they buried him. And the bands of the Moabites invaded the land at the coming in of the year. 21 And it came to pass, as they were burying a man, that behold, they spied a band of men, and they cast the man into the sepulcher of Elisha. And when the man was let down and touched the bones of Elisha, he revived and stood on his feet.

22 But Hazael king of Syria oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz. 23 And the LORD was gracious to them, had compassion on them, and had respect to them, because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them, neither did he reject them from his presence to this day.

24 So Hazael king of Syria died, and Ben-hadad his son reigned in his stead. 25 And Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz took back from the hand of Ben-hadad the son of Hazael the cities that he had taken from the hand of Jehoahaz his father by war. Joash defeated him three times and recovered the cities of Israel.

[#ski014%breakable]
=== Chapter 14

[.outline.text-center]
_Amaziah's good reign, 1-4. His justice on the murderers of his father, 5, 6. His victory over Edom, 7. Amaziah, provoking Jehoash, is overcome and plundered, 8-14. Jeroboam succeeds Jehoash, 15, 16. Amaziah is slain by a conspiracy, 17-20. Azariah succeeds him, 21, 22. Jeroboam's wicked reign, 23-27. Zachariah succeeds him, 28, 29._

1 In the second year of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel, Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah reigned. 2 He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem. 3 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, but not like David his father. He did according to all things as Joash his father did. 4 But the high places were not taken away. The people still sacrificed and burnt incense on the high places. 5 And it came to pass, as soon as the kingdom was confirmed in his hand, that he slew his servants who had slain the king his father. 6 But he did not put the children of the murderers to death, according to that which is written in the book of the law of Moses, in which the LORD commanded, saying, "The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, nor the children be put to death for the fathers. But every man shall be put to death for his own sin."

7 He slew ten thousand of Edom in the valley of Salt and took Selah by war and called its name Joktheel to this day.

8 Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz son of Jehu king of Israel, saying, "Come, let us look one another in the face." 9 And Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, "The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon, saying, 'Give your daughter to my son for a wife.' Then a wild beast that was in Lebanon passed by and trod down the thistle. 10 You have indeed smitten Edom, and your heart has lifted you up. Glory in this and stay at home. For why should you meddle to your hurt that you should fall, even you and Judah with you?"

11 But Amaziah would not listen. Therefore, Jehoash king of Israel went up, and he and Amaziah king of Judah looked one another in the face at Beth-shemesh, which belongs to Judah. 12 And Judah was defeated before Israel, and they each fled to their tents. 13 And Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Beth-shemesh, and came to Jerusalem and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits. 14 And he took all the gold and silver, all the vessels found in the house of the LORD and in the treasures of the king's house, and hostages, and returned to Samaria.

15 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoash which he did and his might and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 16 And Jehoash slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel. And Jeroboam his son reigned in his stead.

17 And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived fifteen years after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel. 18 And the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 19 Now they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish. But they sent after him to Lachish and slew him there. 20 And they brought him on horses, and he was buried at Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David. 21 And all the people of Judah took Azariah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king instead of his father Amaziah. 22 He built Elath and restored it to Judah after the king slept with his fathers.

23 In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah, Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel began to reign in Samaria, and reigned forty-one years. 24 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who made Israel to sin. 25 He restored the border of Israel from the entering of Hamath to the sea of the plain, according to the word of the LORD God of Israel which he spoke by the hand of his servant Jonah, the son of Amittai, the prophet, who was of Gath-hepher. 26 For the LORD saw the affliction of Israel, that it was very bitter, for there was no one shut up nor left at large, nor any helper for Israel. 27 And the LORD did not say that he would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven, but he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash.

28 Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam and all that he did and his might, how he warred and how he recovered for Israel both Damascus and Hamath, which belonged to Judah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 29 And Jeroboam slept with his fathers, even with the kings of Israel. And Zachariah his son reigned in his stead.

[#ski015%breakable]
=== Chapter 15

[.outline.text-center]
_Azariah's good reign, 1-4. He dies a leper, and Jotham succeeds, 5-7. Zachariah, the last of Jehu's generation, reigning ill, is slain by Shallum, 8-12. Shallum, reigning a month, is slain by Menahem, 13-15. Menahem strengthens himself by Pul, 16-20. Pekahiah succeeds him, 21, 22. Pekahiah is slain by Pekah, 23-26. Pekah is oppressed by Tiglath-pileser and slain by Hoshea, 27-31. Jotham's good reign, 32-35. Ahaz succeeds him, 36-38._

1 In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Azariah son of Amaziah king of Judah began to reign. 2 He was sixteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jecholiah, who was from Jerusalem. 3 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father Amaziah had done, 4 Except that the high places were not removed. The people still sacrificed and burnt incense on the high places. 5 And the LORD smote the king so that he was a leper until the day of his death and dwelt in a separate house. And Jotham the king's son was over the house, judging the people of the land. 6 And the rest of the acts of Azariah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 7 So Azariah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David. And Jotham his son reigned in his stead.

8 In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, Zachariah the son of Jeroboam reigned over Israel in Samaria six months. 9 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as his fathers had done. He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who made Israel to sin. 10 And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him, smote him before the people, slew him, and reigned in his stead. 11 And the rest of the acts of Zachariah, behold they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 12 This was the word of the LORD which he spoke to Jehu, saying, "Your sons shall sit on the throne of Israel to the fourth generation." And so it came to pass.

13 Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah, and he reigned a full month in Samaria. 14 For Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah, came to Samaria, smote Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria, slew him, and reigned in his stead. 15 And the rest of the acts of Shallum and his conspiracy which he made, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 16 Then Menahem smote Tiphsah and all who were in it and its borders from Tirzah because they did not open to him; therefore, he smote it, and all the women in it who were with child he ripped up.

17 In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, Menahem the son of Gadi began to reign over Israel, and reigned ten years in Samaria. 18 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart all his days from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who made Israel to sin.

19 And Pul the king of Assyria came against the land. And Menahem gave Pul one thousand talents of silver so that his hand might be with him to confirm the kingdom in his hand. 20 And Menahem exacted the money from Israel, even from all the mighty men of wealth, from each man fifty shekels of silver, to give to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back and did not stay there in the land. 21 And the rest of the acts of Menahem and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 22 And Menahem slept with his fathers, and Pekahiah his son reigned in his stead.

23 In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekahiah the son of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned two years. 24 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who made Israel to sin. 25 But Pekah the son of Remaliah, a captain of his, conspired against him and smote him in Samaria at the palace of the king's house, with Argob and Arieh. Fifty men of the Gileadites were with him. And he killed him and reigned in his stead. 26 And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah and all that he did, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

27 In the fifty-second year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekah the son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned twenty years. 28 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who made Israel to sin.

29 In the days of Pekah king of Israel, Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, came and took Ijon, Abel-beth-maachah, Janoah, Kedesh, Hazor, Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and carried them captive to Assyria. 30 And Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah, smote him, slew him, and reigned in his stead, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah. 31 And the rest of the acts of Pekah and all that he did, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

32 In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israel, Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah began to reign. 33 He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok. 34 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD. He did according to all that his father Uzziah had done. 35 Yet the high places were not removed. The people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places. He built the higher gate of the house of the LORD. 36 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 37 In those days the LORD began to send Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah against Judah. 38 And Jotham slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father. And Ahaz his son reigned in his stead.

[#ski016%breakable]
=== Chapter 16

[.outline.text-center]
_Ahaz's wicked reign, 1-4. Ahaz, assailed by Rezin and Pekah, hires Tiglath-pileser against them, 5-9. Ahaz, sending a pattern of an altar from Damascus to Urijah, diverts the brazen altar to his own devotions, 10-16. He plunders the temple, 17, 18. Hezekiah succeeds him, 19, 20._

1 In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, Ahaz the son of Jotham king of Judah began to reign. 2 Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. He did not do that which was right in the sight of the LORD his God, like David his father. 3 But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel and even made his son to pass through the fire, according to the abominations of the heathen whom the LORD cast out from before the children of Israel. 4 And he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, on the hills, and under every green tree.

5 Then Rezin king of Syria and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel came up to Jerusalem to war. And they besieged Ahaz, but could not overcome him. 6 At that time Rezin king of Syria recovered Elath to Syria and drove the Jews from Elath. And the Syrians came to Elath and have dwelt there to this day.

7 So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, saying, "I am your servant and your son. Come up, and save me from the hand of the king of Syria and from the hand of the king of Israel who rise up against me." 8 And Ahaz took the silver and gold that was found in the house of the LORD and in the treasures of the king's house and sent it for a present to the king of Assyria. 9 And the king of Assyria listened to him, for the king of Assyria went up against Damascus, took it, and carried the people of it captive to Kir and slew Rezin.

10 And king Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria and saw an altar that was at Damascus. And king Ahaz sent to Urijah the priest the fashion of the altar and its pattern, according to all its workmanship. 11 And Urijah the priest built an altar according to all that king Ahaz had sent from Damascus. So Urijah the priest made it before king Ahaz came from Damascus. 12 And when the king had come from Damascus, the king saw the altar. And the king approached the altar and offered on it. 13 And he burnt his burnt-offering and his food-offering, poured his drink-offering, and sprinkled the blood of his peace-offerings upon the altar. 14 And he also brought the brazen altar, which was before the LORD, from the front of the house, from between the altar and the house of the LORD, and put it on the north side of the altar. 15 And king Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, "Upon the great altar burn the morning burnt-offering, the evening food-offering, the king's burnt-sacrifice, and his food-offering, with the burnt-offering of all the people of the land, their food-offering, and their drink-offerings, and sprinkle upon it all the blood of the burnt-offering and all the blood of the sacrifice. And the brazen altar shall be for me to inquire by." 16 Thus Urijah the priest did according to all that king Ahaz commanded.

17 And king Ahaz cut off the borders of the bases and removed the basin from off them, and took down the sea from off the brazen oxen that were under it and put it upon a pavement of stones. 18 And the covert for the sabbath that they had built in the house and the king's entry outside, he turned from the house of the LORD for the king of Assyria.

19 Now the rest of the acts of Ahaz which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 20 And Ahaz slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.

[#ski017%breakable]
=== Chapter 17

[.outline.text-center]
_Hoshea's wicked reign, 1, 2. Being subdued by Shalmaneser, he conspires against him with So, king of Egypt, 3, 4. The Lord rejects the offspring of Israel for their sins, and they are led into captivity, 5-23. The strange nations which were transplanted into Samaria, being plagued with lions, make a mixture of religions, 24-41._

1 In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah, Hoshea the son of Elah began to reign in Samaria over Israel nine years. 2 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, but not as the kings of Israel that were before him. 3 Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against him, and Hoshea became his servant and gave him presents. 4 And the king of Assyria found conspiracy in Hoshea, for he had sent messengers to So king of Egypt and brought no present to the king of Assyria as he had done year by year. Therefore, the king of Assyria shut him up and bound him in prison.

5 Then the king of Assyria came up throughout all the land, and went up to Samaria and besieged it three years.

6 In the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of Assyria took Samaria, and carried Israel away into Assyria and placed them in Halah and in Habor by the river of Gozan and in the cities of the Medes.

7 For so it was, that the children of Israel had sinned against the LORD their God who had brought them out of the land of Egypt from under the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and had feared other gods 8 And walked in the statutes of the heathen whom the LORD cast out from before the children of Israel and of the kings of Israel which they had made. 9 And the children of Israel secretly did things that were not right against the LORD their God, and they built for themselves high places in all their cities, from the tower of the watchmen to the fortified city. 10 And they set up for themselves images and groves on every high hill and under every green tree. 11 And there they burnt incense on all the high places, as did the heathen whom the LORD carried away before them, and wrought wicked things to provoke the LORD to anger. 12 For they served idols, of which the LORD had said to them, "You shall not do this thing." 13 Yet the LORD testified against Israel and against Judah by all the prophets and by all the seers, saying, "Turn from your evil ways and keep my commandments and my statutes, according to all the law which I commanded your fathers and which I sent to you by my servants the prophets." 14 But they would not hear, but hardened their necks like the necks of their fathers who did not believe in the LORD their God. 15 And they rejected his statutes, his covenant that he made with their fathers, and his testimonies which he testified against them, and they followed vanity, became vain, and went after the nations that were around them, concerning whom the LORD had charged them that they should not do like them. [[ski017-016]]16 And they left all the commandments of the LORD their God, made for themselves molten images, even two calves, and made a grove, worshiped all the host of heaven, and served Baal. 17 And they caused their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire, used divination and enchantments, and sold themselves to do evil in the sight of the LORD to provoke him to anger. 18 Therefore, the LORD was very angry with Israel and removed them out of his sight. There was none left but the tribe of Judah only.

19 Even Judah did not keep the commandments of the LORD their God, but walked in the statutes of Israel which they made. 20 And the LORD rejected all the offspring of Israel, afflicted them, and delivered them into the hand of raiders until he had cast them out of his sight.

21 For he rent Israel from the house of David, and they made Jeroboam the son of Nebat king. And Jeroboam drove Israel from following the LORD and made them sin a great sin. 22 For the children of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam which he did. They did not depart from them 23 Until the LORD removed Israel out of his sight, as he had said by all his servants the prophets. So Israel was carried away out of their own land to Assyria to this day.

24 And the king of Assyria brought men from Babylon, from Cuthah, from Ava, from Hamath, and from Sepharvaim, and placed them in the cities of Samaria instead of the children of Israel. And they possessed Samaria and dwelt in its cities. 25 And it was so at the beginning of their dwelling there, that they did not fear the LORD. Therefore, the LORD sent lions among them which slew some of them. 26 Therefore, they spoke to the king of Assyria, saying, "The nations which you have removed and placed in the cities of Samaria do not know the manner of the God of the land. Therefore, he has sent lions among them, and behold, they slay them because they do not know the manner of the God of the land."

27 Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, "Carry there one of the priests whom you brought from there, and let them go and dwell there, and let him teach them the manner of the God of the land." 28 Then one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samaria came and dwelt in Beth-el and taught them how they should fear the LORD.

29 Yet every nation made gods of their own and put them in the houses of the high places which the Samaritans had made, every nation in their cities in which they dwelt. 30 And the men of Babylon made Succoth-benoth, the men of Cuth made Nergal, the men of Hamath made Ashima, 31 The Avites made Nibhaz and Tartak, and the Sepharvites burnt their children in the fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim. 32 So they feared the LORD, but also made for themselves from the lowest of them priests of the high places who sacrificed for them in the houses of the high places. 33 They feared the LORD, but also served their own gods after the manner of the nations whom they carried away from there.

34 To this day they do according to the former manners. They do not fear the LORD, neither do they follow their statutes, follow their ordinances, or follow the law and commandment which the LORD commanded the children of Jacob, whom he named Israel, 35 With whom the LORD had made a covenant and charged them, saying, "You shall not fear other gods, nor bow yourselves to them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice to them, 36 But the LORD, who brought you out of the land of Egypt with great power and an out-stretched arm, you shall fear him, you shall worship him, and you shall do sacrifice to him. 37 And the statutes, the ordinances, the law, and the commandment which he wrote for you, you shall observe to do forevermore. And you shall not fear other gods. 38 And the covenant that I have made with you, you shall not forget, neither shall you fear other gods. 39 But you shall fear the LORD your God, and he will deliver you out of the hand of all your enemies." 40 Yet they did not listen, but they did according to their former manner. 41 So these nations feared the LORD, but also served their engraved images, both their children and their children's children. As their fathers did, so they do to this day.

[#ski018%breakable]
=== Chapter 18

[.outline.text-center]
_Hezekiah's good reign, 1-3. He destroys idolatry and prospers, 4-8. The inhabitants of Samaria are carried captive because of their sins, 9-12. Sennacherib, invading Judah, is pacified by a tribute, 13-16. Rab-shakeh, by blasphemous persuasions, solicits the people to revolt, 17-37._

1 Now it came to pass in the third year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, that Hezekiah the son of Ahaz king of Judah began to reign. 2 He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Abi, the daughter of Zachariah. 3 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that David his father did. 4 He removed the high places, broke the images, cut down the groves, and broke in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made, for until those days the children of Israel burnt incense to it. And he called it Nehushtan. 5 He trusted in the LORD God of Israel so that after him there was no one like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any who were before him. 6 For he cleaved to the LORD and did not depart from following him, but kept his commandments which the LORD commanded Moses.

7 And the LORD was with him, and he prospered wherever he went forth. And he rebelled against the king of Assyria and did not serve him. 8 He smote the Philistines to Gaza and its borders, from the tower of the watchmen to the fortified city.

9 And it came to pass in the fourth year of king Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, that Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria and besieged it. 10 And at the end of three years they took it. Even in the sixth year of Hezekiah, that is the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel, Samaria was taken. 11 And the king of Assyria carried away Israel to Assyria and put them in Halah and by the Habor, the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes, 12 Because they did not obey the voice of the LORD their God, but transgressed his covenant, even all that Moses the servant of the LORD commanded. They would neither hear them nor do them.

13 Now in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them. 14 And Hezekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Assyria at Lachish, saying, "I have offended. Withdraw from me. That which you put on me I will bear." And the king of Assyria appointed to Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold. 15 And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the house of the LORD and in the treasures of the king's house. 16 At that time Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of the temple of the LORD and from the pillars which Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid and gave it to the king of Assyria.

17 And the king of Assyria sent Tartan, Rab-saris, and Rab-shakeh from Lachish to king Hezekiah with a great army against Jerusalem. And they went up and came to Jerusalem. And when they had come up, they came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is in the highway of the fuller's field. 18 And when they had called to the king, there came out to them Eliakim the son of Hilkiah who was over the household, Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder.

19 And Rab-shakeh said to them, "Speak now to Hezekiah, 'Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria: "What confidence is this in which you trust? 20 You say (but they are only vain words), 'I have counsel and strength for the war.' Now in whom do you trust that you rebel against me? 21 Now behold, you trust upon the staff of this bruised reed, even upon Egypt, on which if a man leans, it will go into his hand and pierce it. Thus is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust in him. 22 But if you say to me, 'We trust in the LORD our God,' is it not he whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has taken away and has said to Judah and Jerusalem, 'You shall worship before this altar in Jerusalem'? 23 Now therefore, I pray you, give pledges to my lord the king of Assyria, and I will deliver you two thousand horses, if you are able on your part to set riders upon them. 24 How then will you turn away the face of one captain of the least of my master's servants and put your trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen? 25 Have I now come up without the LORD against this place to destroy it? The LORD said to me, 'Go up against this land and destroy it.'"'"

26 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, Shebna, and Joah said to Rab-shakeh, "Speak, I pray you, to your servants in the Syrian language, for we understand it. And do not talk with us in the Jews' language in the ears of the people who are on the wall." 27 But Rab-shakeh said to them, "Has my master sent me to your master and to you to speak these words? Has he not sent me to the men who sit on the wall, who will have to feed on their vilest excretions with you?"

28 Then Rab-shakeh stood and cried with a loud voice in the Jews' language and spoke, saying, "Hear the word of the great king, the king of Assyria. 29 Thus says the king: 'Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he shall not be able to deliver you out of his hand. 30 Do not let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD, saying, "The LORD will surely deliver us, and this city shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria." 31 Do not listen to Hezekiah, for thus says the king of Assyria: "Make peace with me and come out to me, and then each of you shall eat from his own vine and his own his fig-tree, and each of you shall drink the waters of his cistern, 32 Until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olive-oil and of honey, so that you may live and not die." And do not listen to Hezekiah when he persuades you, saying, "The LORD will deliver us." 33 Has any of the gods of the nations at all delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria? 34 Where are the gods of Hamath and of Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivah? Have they delivered Samaria out of my hand? 35 Who among all the gods of the countries have delivered their country out of my hand that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?'"

36 But the people held their peace and did not answer him a word, for the king's commandment was, saying, "Do not answer him." 37 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah who was over the household, Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their clothes rent and told him the words of Rab-shakeh.

[#ski019%breakable]
=== Chapter 19

[.outline.text-center]
_Hezekiah, mourning, sends to Isaiah to pray for them, 1-5. Isaiah comforts them, 6, 7. Sennacherib, going to encounter Tirhakah, sends a blasphemous letter to Hezekiah, 8-13. Hezekiah's prayer, 14-19. Isaiah's prophecy of the pride and destruction of Sennacherib and the good of Zion, 20-34. An angel slays the Assyrians, 35. Sennacherib is slain by his own sons, 36, 37._

1 And it came to pass, when king Hezekiah heard it, that he rent his clothes, covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the house of the LORD. 2 And he sent Eliakim who was over the household, Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz. 3 And they said to him, "Thus says Hezekiah: 'This day is a day of trouble, of rebuke, and blasphemy, for the children have come to the birth, and there is not strength to bring forth. 4 It may be that the LORD your God will hear all the words of Rab-shakeh, whom the king of Assyria his master has sent to reproach the living God, and will reprove the words which the LORD your God has heard. Therefore, lift up your prayer for the remnant that is left.'" 5 So the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah. 6 And Isaiah said to them, "Thus you shall say to your master: 'Thus says the LORD: "Do not be afraid of the words which you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me. 7 Behold, I will put a spirit in him, and he shall hear a rumor and shall return to his own land, and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land."'"

8 So Rab-shakeh returned and found the king of Assyria warring against Libnah, for he had heard that he had departed from Lachish. 9 And when he heard it said of Tirhakah king of Cush, "Behold, he has come out to fight against you," he sent messengers again to Hezekiah, saying, 10 "Thus you shall speak to Hezekiah king of Judah, saying, 'Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you, saying, "Jerusalem shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria." 11 Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands by destroying them utterly. And shall you be delivered? 12 Have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fathers have destroyed, as Gozan, Haran, Rezeph, and the children of Eden who were in Thelasar? 13 Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivah?'"

14 And Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it. And Hezekiah went up into the house of the LORD and spread it before the LORD. 15 And Hezekiah prayed before the LORD and said, "O LORD God of Israel, dwelling between the cherubim, you are the God, even you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth. 16 LORD, bow down your ear and hear. LORD, open your eyes and see. And hear the words of Sennacherib who has sent him to reproach the living God. 17 Of a truth, LORD, the kings of Assyria have destroyed the nations and their lands, 18 And have cast their gods into the fire, for they were not gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone. Therefore, they have destroyed them. 19 Now therefore, O LORD our God, I implore you, save us from his hand so that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you are the LORD God, even you only."

20 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, "Thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'That which you have prayed to me against Sennacherib king of Assyria I have heard.' 21 This is the word that the LORD has spoken concerning him:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|'The virgin daughter of Zion [.linebr]#/# +
has despised you and laughed you to scorn. [.linebr]#/# +
The daughter of Jerusalem [.linebr]#/# +
has shaken her head at you.

|
|22 'Whom have you reproached and blasphemed? [.linebr]#/# +
And against whom have you exalted your voice [.linebr]#/# +
and lifted up your eyes on high? [.linebr]#/# +
Even against the Holy One of Israel.

|
|23 By your messengers you have reproached the Lord [.linebr]#/# +
and have said, "With the multitude of my chariots [.linebr]#/# +
I have come up to the height of the mountains, [.linebr]#/# +
to the sides of Lebanon, [.linebr]#/# +
and will cut down its tall cedar trees [.linebr]#/# +
and its choice fir trees. [.linebr]#/# +
And I will enter into the lodgings of his borders [.linebr]#/# +
and into the forest of his Carmel.

|
|24 I have dug and drank strange waters, [.linebr]#/# +
and with the sole of my feet I have dried up [.linebr]#/# +
all the rivers of besieged places."

|
|25 'Have you not heard long ago how I have done it, [.linebr]#/# +
and of ancient times that I have formed it? [.linebr]#/# +
Now I have brought it to pass, [.linebr]#/# +
that fortified cities should be laid waste in ruinous heaps.

|
|26 Therefore, their inhabitants were of small power, [.linebr]#/# +
they were dismayed and confounded, [.linebr]#/# +
they were as the grass of the field, [.linebr]#/# +
as the green herb, as the grass on the house-tops, [.linebr]#/# +
and as grain blasted before it is grown up.

|
|27 'But I know your abode, [.linebr]#/# +
your going out, your coming in, [.linebr]#/# +
and your rage against me.

|
|28 Because your rage against me [.linebr]#/# +
and your tumult has come up into my ears, [.linebr]#/# +
therefore I will put my hook in your nose [.linebr]#/# +
and my bridle in your lips, [.linebr]#/# +
and I will turn you back on the way by which you came.
|===

29 'And this shall be a sign to you: you shall eat this year such things as grow of themselves, and in the second year that which springs of the same, and in the third year sow, reap, plant vineyards, and eat their fruits. 30 And the remnant of the house of Judah who have escaped shall again take root downward and bear fruit upward. 31 For out of Jerusalem a remnant shall go forth, and out of mount Zion those who escape. The zeal of the LORD of hosts shall do this.

32 'Therefore, thus says the LORD concerning the king of Assyria: "He shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with shield, nor cast a siege-mound against it. 33 By the way that he came, by the same he shall return and shall not come into this city,"' says the LORD. 34 'For I will defend this city to save it for my own sake and for my servant David's sake.'"

35 And it came to pass that night, that the angel of the LORD went out and smote in the camp of the Assyrians one hundred and eighty-five thousand. And when they arose early in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses. 36 So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and went and returned and dwelt at Nineveh. 37 And it came to pass, as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons smote him with the sword, and they escaped into the land of Armenia. And Esar-haddon his son reigned in his stead.

[#ski020%breakable]
=== Chapter 20

[.outline.text-center]
_Hezekiah, having received a message of death, by prayer has his life lengthened, 1-7. The sun goes ten degrees backward for a sign of that promise, 8-11. Berodach-baladan, sending to visit Hezekiah because of the wonder, has notice of his treasures, 12, 13. Isaiah understanding thereof, foretells the Babylonian captivity, 14-19. Manasseh succeeds Hezekiah, 20, 21._

1 In those days Hezekiah was sick to death. And the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz came to him and said to him, "Thus says the LORD: 'Set your house in order, for you shall die and not live.'" 2 Then he turned his face to the wall and prayed to the LORD, saying, 3 "I implore you, O LORD, remember now how I have walked before you in truth and with a perfect heart and have done that which is good in your sight." And Hezekiah wept grievously. 4 And it came to pass, before Isaiah had gone out into the middle court, that the word of the LORD came to him, saying, 5 "Turn back and tell Hezekiah the captain of my people, 'Thus says the LORD, the God of David your father: "I have heard your prayer. I have seen your tears. Behold, I will heal you. On the third day you shall go up to the house of the LORD. 6 And I will add to your days fifteen years. And I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria, and I will defend this city for my own sake and for my servant David's sake."'" 7 And Isaiah said, "Take a lump of figs." And they took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered.

8 And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, "What shall be the sign that the LORD will heal me and that I shall go up into the house of the LORD on the third day?" 9 And Isaiah said, "This sign you shall have from the LORD that the LORD will do the thing that he has spoken: shall the shadow go forward ten degrees, or go back ten degrees?" 10 And Hezekiah answered, "It is a light thing for the shadow to go forward ten degrees. No, but let the shadow return backward ten degrees." 11 And Isaiah the prophet cried to the LORD, and he brought the shadow ten degrees backward, by which it had gone down on the dial of Ahaz.

12 At that time Berodach-baladan, the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he had heard that Hezekiah had been sick. 13 And Hezekiah listened to them and showed them all the house of his precious things: the silver, the gold, the spices, the precious ointment, all the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures. There was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion, that Hezekiah did not show them. 14 Then Isaiah the prophet came to king Hezekiah and said to him, "What did these men say? And from where did they come to you?" And Hezekiah said, "They have come from a far country even from Babylon." 15 And he said, "What have they seen in your house?" And Hezekiah answered, "All the things that are in my house they have seen. There is nothing among my treasures that I have not shown them."

16 And Isaiah said to Hezekiah, "Hear the word of the LORD. 17 'Behold, the days come that all that is in your house and that which your fathers have laid up in store to this day shall be carried into Babylon. Nothing shall be left,' says the LORD. 18 'And of your sons who shall issue from you, which you shall beget, they shall take away, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.'" 19 Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, "Good is the word of the LORD which you have spoken." And he said, "Is it not good if peace and truth are in my days?"

20 And the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and all his might, and how he made a pool and a conduit and brought water into the city, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 21 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.

[#ski021%breakable]
=== Chapter 21

[.outline.text-center]
_Manasseh's reign, 1, 2. His great idolatry, 3-9. His wickedness causes prophecies against Judah, 10-16. Amon succeeds him, 17, 18. Amon's wicked reign, 19-22. He is slain by his servants, and those murderers slain by the people, and Josiah is made king, 23-26._

1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hephzi-bah. 2 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, after the abominations of the heathen whom the LORD cast out before the children of Israel. 3 For he built again the high places which Hezekiah his father had destroyed, he reared altars for Baal, he made a grove as Ahab king of Israel did, and he worshiped all the host of heaven and served them. 4 And he built altars in the house of the LORD, of which the LORD said, "In Jerusalem I will put my name." 5 And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the LORD. 6 And he made his son pass through the fire, observed times, used enchantments, and dealt with familiar spirits and wizards. He committed much wickedness in the sight of the LORD to provoke him to anger. 7 And he set an engraved image of the grove that he had made in the house, of which the LORD said to David and to Solomon his son, "In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all tribes of Israel, I will put my name forever. 8 I will not make the feet of Israel move anymore out of the land which I gave their fathers, only if they will observe to do according to all that I have commanded them and according to all the law that my servant Moses commanded them." 9 But they did not listen. And Manasseh seduced them to do more evil than the nations whom the LORD destroyed before the children of Israel.

10 And the LORD spoke by his servants the prophets, saying, 11 "Because Manasseh king of Judah has done these abominations and has done wickedly above all that the Amorites did, who were before him, and has made Judah also to sin with his idols, 12 Therefore, thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'Behold, I am bringing such evil upon Jerusalem and Judah so that whoever hears of it, both his ears shall tingle. 13 And I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria and the plummet of the house of Ahab, and I will wipe Jerusalem as a man wipes a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down. 14 And I will forsake the remnant of my inheritance and deliver them into the hand of their enemies, and they shall become captives and plunder to all their enemies, 15 Because they have done that which was evil in my sight and have provoked me to anger since the day their fathers came out of Egypt, even to this day.'"

16 Moreover, Manasseh shed very much innocent blood until he had filled Jerusalem from one end to another, besides his sin with which he made Judah to sin in doing evil in the sight of the LORD. 17 Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh and all that he did and his sin that he sinned, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 18 And Manasseh slept with his fathers and was buried in the garden of his own house in the garden of Uzza. And Amon his son reigned in his stead.

19 Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Meshullemeth, the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah. 20 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD as his father Manasseh did. 21 And he walked in all the way that his father walked in and served the idols that his father served and worshiped them. 22 And he forsook the LORD God of his fathers and did not walk in the way of the LORD. 23 And the servants of Amon conspired against him and slew the king in his own house. 24 And the people of the land slew all those who had conspired against king Amon, and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his stead. 25 Now the rest of the acts of Amon which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 26 And he was buried in his sepulcher in the garden of Uzza. And Josiah his son reigned in his stead.

[#ski022%breakable]
=== Chapter 22

[.outline.text-center]
_Josiah's good reign, 1, 2. He takes care for the repair of the temple, 3-7. After Hilkiah finds the book of the law, Josiah sends to Huldah to inquire of the Lord, 8-14. Huldah prophesies the destruction of Jerusalem, but respite for it in Josiah's time, 15-20._

1 Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Boscath. 2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD and walked in all the way of David his father and did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left.

3 And it came to pass in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, that the king sent Shaphan the scribe, the son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam, to the house of the LORD, saying, 4 "Go to Hilkiah the high priest so that he may sum the silver which is brought into the house of the LORD, which the keepers of the door have gathered from the people. 5 And let them deliver it into the hand of the doers of the work who have the oversight of the house of the LORD, and let them give it to the doers of the work who are in the house of the LORD to repair the breaches of the house, 6 To carpenters, builders, and masons, and for buying timber and hewn stone to repair the house. 7 But there was no reckoning made with them of the money that was delivered into their hand, because they dealt faithfully."

8 And Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, "I have found the book of the law in the house of the LORD." And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it. 9 And Shaphan the scribe came to the king and brought back word to the king and said, "Your servants have gathered the money that was found in the house and have delivered it into the hand of those who do the work, who have the oversight of the house of the LORD." 10 And Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, "Hilkiah the priest has delivered a book to me." And Shaphan read it before the king.

11 And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the book of the law, that he rent his clothes. 12 And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Achbor the son of Michaiah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asahiah the king's servant, saying, 13 "Go, inquire of the LORD for me, for the people, and for all Judah concerning the words of this book that is found, for the wrath of the LORD is great that is kindled against us because our fathers have not listened to the words of this book to do according to all that which is written concerning us."

14 So Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam, Achbor, Shaphan, and Asahiah went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum, the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the second quarter), and they spoke with her. 15 And she said to them, "Thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'Tell the man who sent you to me, 16 "Thus says the LORD: 'Behold, I will bring evil upon this place and upon its inhabitants, even all the words of the book which the king of Judah has read. 17 Because they have forsaken me and have burned incense to other gods that they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands, therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place and shall not be quenched.'" 18 But to the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of the LORD, thus you shall say to him: "Thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'Concerning the words which you have heard, 19 Because your heart was tender and you have humbled yourself before the LORD when you heard what I spoke against this place and against its inhabitants, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and have rent your clothes and wept before me, I also have heard you,' says the LORD. 20 'Behold therefore, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered into your grave in peace. And your eyes shall not see all the evil which I will bring upon this place.'"'" And they brought back word to the king.

[#ski023%breakable]
=== Chapter 23

[.outline.text-center]
_Josiah causes the book to be read in a solemn assembly, 1, 2. He renews the covenant of the Lord, 3. He destroys idolatry, 4-14. He burns dead men's bones upon the altar of Beth-el, as was before prophesied, 15-20. He keeps a most solemn passover, 21-23. He puts away witches and all abomination, 24, 25. God's final wrath against Judah, 26-28. Josiah, provoking Pharaoh-nechoh, is slain at Megiddo, 29, 30. Jehoahaz, succeeding him, is imprisoned by Pharaoh-nechoh, who makes Jehoiakim king, 31-35. Jehoiakim's wicked reign, 36, 37._

1 And the king sent, and they gathered to him all the elders of Judah and of Jerusalem. 2 And the king went up into the house of the LORD, and all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, the priests, the prophets, and all the people, both small and great. And he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of the LORD. 3 And the king stood by a pillar and made a covenant before the LORD to walk after the LORD, to keep his commandments, his testimonies, and his statutes, with all their heart and all their soul, to perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book. And all the people stood to the covenant.

4 And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest, the priests of the second order, and the keepers of the door to bring forth out of the temple of the LORD all the vessels that were made for Baal, for the grove, and for all the host of heaven. And he burned them outside Jerusalem in the fields of Kidron and carried their ashes to Beth-el. 5 And he put down the idolatrous priests whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah and in the places around Jerusalem, those who burned incense to Baal, to the sun, to the moon, to the planets, and to all the host of heaven. 6 And he brought out the grove from the house of the LORD, outside Jerusalem, to the brook Kidron, and burned it at the brook Kidron, stamped it to powder, and cast its powder upon the graves of the children of the people. 7 And he broke down the houses of the temple prostitutes that were by the house of the LORD, where the women wove hangings for the grove. 8 And he brought all the priests out of the cities of Judah and defiled the high places where the priests had burned incense, from Geba to Beer-sheba, and broke down the high places of the gates that were in the entrance of the gate of Joshua the governor of the city, which were on a man's left hand at the gate of the city. 9 Nevertheless, the priests of the high places did not come up to the altar of the LORD in Jerusalem, but they ate the unleavened bread among their brothers. 10 And he defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the children of Hinnom, so that no man might make his son or his daughter to pass through the fire to Molech. 11 And he took away the horses that the kings of Judah had given to the sun at the entrance of the house of the LORD, by the chamber of Nathan-melech the chamberlain which was in the suburbs, and burned the chariots of the sun with fire. 12 And the altars that were on the top of the upper chamber of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the altars which Manasseh had made in the two courts of the house of the LORD, the king beat down and broke them down from there and cast their dust into the brook Kidron. 13 And the high places that were before Jerusalem, which were on the right hand of the mountain of corruption, which Solomon the king of Israel had built for Ashtoreth the abomination of the Zidonians, for Chemosh the abomination of the Moabites, and for Milcom the abomination of the children of Ammon, the king defiled. 14 And he broke the images in pieces, cut down the groves, and filled their places with the bones of men.

15 Moreover, the altar that was at Beth-el and the high place which Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin, had made, both that altar and the high place he broke down and burned the high place and stamped it to powder and burned the grove. 16 And as Josiah turned himself, he espied the sepulchers that were there in the mountain, and sent, and took the bones out of the sepulchers and burned them upon the altar and polluted it, according to the word of the LORD which the man of God proclaimed who proclaimed these words. 17 Then he said, "What title is that which I see?" And the men of the city told him, "It is the sepulcher of the man of God who came from Judah and proclaimed these things that you have done against the altar of Beth-el." 18 And he said, "Leave him alone. Let no man move his bones." So they left his bones alone with the bones of the prophet who came out of Samaria. 19 And all the houses of the high places that were in the cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had made to provoke the LORD to anger, Josiah took away and did to them according to all the acts that he had done in Beth-el. 20 And he slew all the priests of the high places who were there upon the altars, burnt men's bones upon them, and returned to Jerusalem.

21 And the king commanded all the people, saying, "Keep the passover to the LORD your God, as it is written in the book of this covenant." 22 Surely there was not held such a passover from the days of the judges who judged Israel, nor in all the days of the kings of Israel, nor of the kings of Judah. 23 But in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, this passover was held to the LORD in Jerusalem.

24 Moreover, the workers with familiar spirits, the wizards, the images, the idols, and all the abominations that were seen in the land of Judah and in Jerusalem, Josiah put away so that he might perform the words of the law which were written in the book that Hilkiah the priest found in the house of the LORD. 25 And there was no king like him before him who turned to the LORD with all his heart, with all his soul, and with all his might, according to all the law of Moses, neither after him did there arise any like him.

26 But, the LORD did not turn from the fierceness of his great wrath with which his anger was kindled against Judah, because of all the provocations by which Manasseh had provoked him. 27 And the LORD said, "I will also remove Judah out of my sight, as I have removed Israel, and will reject this city Jerusalem which I have chosen and the house of which I said, 'My name shall be there.'"

28 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 29 In his days Pharaoh-nechoh king of Egypt went up against the king of Assyria to the Euphrates River. And king Josiah went against him, and Pharaoh-nechoh slew him at Megiddo when he had seen him. 30 And his servants carried him dead in a chariot from Megiddo, brought him to Jerusalem, and buried him in his own sepulcher. And the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah and anointed him and made him king in his father's stead.

31 Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 32 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his fathers had done. 33 And Pharaoh-nechoh put him in bonds at Riblah in the land of Hamath so that he might not reign in Jerusalem, and subjected the land to a tribute of one hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.

34 And Pharaoh-nechoh made Eliakim the son of Josiah king in place of Josiah his father and turned his name to Jehoiakim, and he took Jehoahaz away. And he came to Egypt and died there. 35 And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh, but he taxed the land to give the money according to the commandment of Pharaoh. He exacted the silver and the gold from the people of the land, from each according to his taxation, to give it to Pharaoh-nechoh.

36 Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Zebudah, the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah. 37 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his fathers had done.

[#ski024%breakable]
=== Chapter 24

[.outline.text-center]
_Jehoiakim, first subdued by Nebuchadnezzar, then rebelling against him, procures his own ruin, 1-4. Jehoiachin succeeds him, 5, 6. The king of Egypt is vanquished by the king of Babylon, 7. Jehoiachin's evil reign, 8, 9. Jerusalem is taken and carried captive into Babylon, 10-16. Zedekiah is made king and reigns ill to the utter destruction of Judah, 17-20._

1 In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant for three years. Then he turned and rebelled against him. 2 And the LORD sent against him bands of the Chaldeans, bands of the Syrians, bands of the Moabites, and bands of the children of Ammon, and sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of the LORD which he spoke by his servants the prophets. 3 Surely at the commandment of the LORD this came upon Judah to remove them out of his sight because of the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he did, 4 And also for the innocent blood that he shed, for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood which the LORD would not pardon. 5 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

6 So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers, and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his stead. 7 And the king of Egypt did not come out of his land again, for the king of Babylon had taken all that pertained to the king of Egypt from the river of Egypt to the Euphrates River.

8 Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Nehushta, the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem. 9 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father had done.

10 At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up against Jerusalem, and the city was besieged. 11 And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against the city, and his servants besieged it. 12 And Jehoiachin the king of Judah went out to the king of Babylon—he, his mother, his servants, his princes, and his officers. And the king of Babylon took him in the eighth year of his reign. 13 And he carried out from there all the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king's house, and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold which Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple of the LORD, as the LORD had said. 14 And he carried away all Jerusalem, all the princes, all the mighty men of valor, even ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and smiths. None remained, except the poorest sort of the people of the land.

15 And he carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon, the king's mother, the king's wives, his officers, and the mighty of the land. He carried them into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon. 16 And all the men of might, even seven thousand, and one thousand craftsmen and smiths, all who were strong and apt for war, even these the king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon.

17 And the king of Babylon made Mattaniah his father's brother king in his stead and changed his name to Zedekiah.

18 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 19 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that Jehoiakim had done. 20 For through the anger of the LORD it came to pass in Jerusalem and Judah until he had cast them out from his presence, that Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.

[#ski025%breakable]
=== Chapter 25

[.outline.text-center]
_Jerusalem is besieged, 1-3. Zedekiah taken, his sons slain, his eyes put out, 4-7. Nebuzar-adan defaces the city, carries the remnant into captivity, except a few poor laborers, 8-12; and plunders and carries away the treasures, 13-17. The nobles are slain at Riblah, 18-21. Gedaliah, who was over those who remained, is slain, and the rest flee into Egypt, 22-26. Evil-merodach advances Jehoiachin in his court, 27-30._

1 And it came to pass in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came—he and all his army—against Jerusalem and encamped against it. And they built forts against it on all sides. 2 And the city was besieged until the eleventh year of king Zedekiah. 3 And on the ninth day of the fourth month the famine prevailed in the city, and there was no bread for the people of the land. 4 And the city was broken up, and all the men of war fled by night by the way of the gate between two walls, which is by the king's garden (now the Chaldeans were against the city on all sides). And the king went the way toward the plain. 5 And the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook him in the plains of Jericho, and all his army was scattered from him. 6 So they took the king and brought him to the king of Babylon at Riblah, and they gave judgment upon him. 7 And they slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes and put out the eyes of Zedekiah, bound him with fetters of brass, and carried him to Babylon.

8 And in the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month, which is the nineteenth year of king Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, Nebuzar-adan, captain of the guard, a servant of the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem. 9 And he burnt the house of the LORD, the king's house, and all the houses of Jerusalem, and he burnt every great man's house with fire. 10 And all the army of the Chaldeans, who were with the captain of the guard, broke down the walls of Jerusalem on all sides. 11 Now the rest of the people who were left in the city, and the fugitives who fell away to the king of Babylon, with the remnant of the multitude, Nebuzar-adan the captain of the guard carried away. 12 But the captain of the guard left some of the poor of the land to be vine-dressers and farmers.

13 And the pillars of brass that were in the house of the LORD, the bases, and the brazen sea that was in the house of the LORD, the Chaldeans broke in pieces and carried their brass to Babylon. 14 And the pots, the shovels, the snuffers, the spoons, and all the vessels of brass with which they ministered, they took away. 15 And the fire-pans, the bowls, and such things as were of gold, in gold, and of silver, in silver, the captain of the guard took away. 16 The two pillars, one sea, and the bases which Solomon had made for the house of the LORD, the brass of all these vessels was without weight. 17 The height of one pillar was eighteen cubits, and the capital upon it was brass. And the height of the capital was three cubits. And the net-work and pomegranates upon the capital around were all of brass. And the second pillar was like these with net-work.

18 And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the door. 19 And out of the city he took an officer who was set over the men of war, five men of those who were in the king's presence who were found in the city, the principal scribe of the host who mustered the people of the land, and sixty men of the people of the land who were found in the city. 20 And Nebuzar-adan captain of the guard took these and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah. 21 And the king of Babylon smote them and slew them at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried away out of their land.

22 And as for the people who remained in the land of Judah whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had left, he made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, ruler over them. 23 And when all the captains of the armies—they and their men—heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah governor, they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, Johanan the son of Careah, Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah the son of a Maachathite—they and their men. 24 And Gedaliah swore to them and to their men and said to them, "Do not fear to be the servants of the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you."

25 But it came to pass in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the royal family, came, and ten men with him, and smote Gedaliah so that he died, along with the Jews and the Chaldeans who were with him at Mizpah. 26 And all the people, both small and great, and the captains of the armies, arose and came to Egypt, for they were afraid of the Chaldeans.

27 And it came to pass in the thirty-seventh year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, that Evil-merodach king of Babylon, in the year that he began to reign, lifted up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah out of prison. 28 And he spoke kindly to him and set his throne above the throne of the kings who were with him in Babylon. 29 And he changed his prison garments. And he ate bread continually before him all the days of his life. 30 And his allowance was a continual allowance given to him by the king, a daily rate for every day, all the days of his life.

[.text-center]
_[Tanach reading: go to xref:#isaiah[Isaiah]]_
