////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#second-peter]
== The Second Letter from Peter

*2nd Peter | Πέτρου Β'*

[#spe001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_Confirming them in hope of the increase of God's graces, 1-4, Peter exhorts them by faith and good works to make their calling sure, 5-11; of which he is careful to remind them, knowing that his death is at hand, 12-15; and warns them to be constant in the faith of Christ, who is the true Son of God, by the eyewitness of the apostles beholding his majesty and by the testimony of the Father and the prophets, 16-21._

1 Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have obtained an equally precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ: 2 May grace and peace be multiplied to you through the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord, 3 According as his divine power has given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of him who has called us to glory and virtue, 4 Through which exceedingly great and precious promises are given to us, so that by these you might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. 5 And besides this, giving all diligence, add to your faith, virtue; to virtue, knowledge; 6 To knowledge, temperance; to temperance, patience; to patience, godliness; 7 To godliness, brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness, charity. 8 For if these things are in you and abound, they make you to neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. 9 But he who lacks these things is blind and cannot see afar off and has forgotten that he was purified from his old sins. 10 Therefore, brothers, give more diligence to make your calling and election sure. For if you do these things, you shall never fall. 11 For in this way an entrance into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ shall be abundantly ministered to you.

12 Therefore, I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though you know them and are established in the present truth. 13 Indeed, I think it proper, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance, 14 Knowing that shortly I must put off this tabernacle of mine, even as our Lord Jesus Christ has shown me. 15 Moreover, I will endeavor that you may be able, after my departure, to have these things always in remembrance.

16 For we have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eye-witnesses of his majesty. 17 For he received from God the Father honor and glory when the voice came to him from the excellent glory: "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." 18 And we heard this voice which came from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain.

19 We have also a more sure word of prophecy, to which you do well that you take heed, as to a light that shines in a dark place, until the day dawns and the day-star arises in your hearts, 20 Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation. 21 For prophecy did not come in old time by the will of man. But holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit.

[#spe002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_Peter foretells them about false teachers, showing the impiety and punishment both of them and their followers, 1-6; from which the godly shall be delivered, as Lot was out of Sodom, 7-9; and more fully describes the manners of those profane and blasphemous seducers, whereby they may be the better known and avoided, 10-22._

1 But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there will be false teachers among you who will privately bring in condemnable heresies, even denying the Lord who bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction. 2 And many will follow their pernicious ways, by reason of whom the way of truth will be blasphemed. 3 And through covetousness they will with feigned words exploit you, whose judgment from long ago does not linger and their condemnation does not slumber.

4 For if God did not spare the angels who sinned, but cast them down to hell and delivered them into chains of darkness to be reserved to judgment, 5 And did not spare the old world, but saved Noah the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing the flood upon the world of the ungodly, 6 And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them with an overthrow, making them an example to those who afterward should live ungodly lives, 7 And delivered just Lot, grieved with the habitual lewdness of the wicked 8 (For that righteous man dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, grieved his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds), 9 Then the Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of temptations and to reserve the unjust for the day of judgment to be punished, 10 But chiefly those who walk after the flesh in the lust of uncleanness and despise government. They are presumptuous and self-willed. They are not afraid to speak evil of glorious [ones], 11 Whereas angels, who are greater in power and might, do not bring railing accusation against them before the Lord. 12 But these, as natural brute beasts made to be taken and destroyed, speak evil of the things that they do not understand. They shall utterly perish in their own corruption, 13 And shall receive the reward of unrighteousness, as those who count it pleasure to riot in the day-time. They are spots and blemishes, reveling in their own deceptions while they feast with you, 14 Having eyes full of adultery that cannot cease from sin, beguiling unstable souls. They have a heart exercised with covetous practices. They are cursed children. 15 They have forsaken the right way and gone astray, following the way of Balaam the son of Beor, who loved the wages of unrighteousness, 16 But was rebuked for his iniquity—the mute donkey speaking with man's voice hindered the madness of the prophet.

17 These are wells without water, clouds that are carried with a tempest, to whom the mist of darkness is reserved forever. 18 For when they speak great swelling words of vanity, they allure through the lusts of the flesh, through much wantonness, those who had quite escaped from those who live in error. 19 While they promise them liberty, they themselves are the servants of corruption. For by whom a man is overcome, by the same he is brought into bondage. 20 For if, after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and overcome, the latter end is worse with them than the beginning. 21 For it would have been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than after they have known it to turn from the holy commandment delivered to them. [[spe002-022]]22 But it has happened to them according to the true proverb, "_The dog has turned to his own vomit again,_" and, "The sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire."

[%breakable]
Old Testament Quotes::
*[v.22]*: xref:#pro026-011[Proverbs 26:11].

[#spe003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_Peter assures them of the certainty of Christ's coming to judgment against those scorners who dispute against it, 1-7. He instructs them in the patience of God and his promise to judge the world, 8, 9. He also describes the manner in which the world shall be destroyed, 10; exhorting them, from the expectation thereof, to all holiness of life, 11-15; and again to think the patience of God to tend to their salvation, as Paul wrote to them in his epistles, 16-18._

1 This, beloved, is the second epistle I now write to you, in both of which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance, 2 So that you may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets and of the commandment of us the apostles of the Lord and Savior.

3 Know this first, that scoffers will come in the last days, walking after their own lusts, 4 And saying, "Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation." 5 For this they willingly are ignorant of: that by the word of God the heavens were of old and the earth formed out of the water and through the water, 6 By which the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished. 7 But the present heavens and the earth are kept in store by the same word, reserved to fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men.

8 But, beloved, do not be ignorant of this one thing: one day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. 9 The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is patient toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.

10 But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, the elements will melt with fervent heat, and the earth and the works that are therein will be burned up.

11 Seeing then that all these things will be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in all holy deportment and godliness, 12 Looking for and hastening to the coming of the day of God, in which the heavens being on fire will be dissolved and the elements will melt with fervent heat? 13 Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth, in which dwells righteousness.

14 Therefore, beloved, seeing that you look for such things, be diligent that you may be found by him in peace, without spot, and blameless. 15 And regard the patience of our Lord as salvation, even as our beloved brother Paul also, according to the wisdom given to him, has written to you, 16 As also in all his epistles, speaking in them about these things, in which are some things hard to understand, which those who are unlearned and unstable wrest, as they also do the other Scriptures, to their own destruction. 17 You therefore, beloved, seeing you know these things beforehand, beware lest you also, being led away with the error of the wicked, fall from your own steadfastness. 18 But grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and forever. Amen.
