////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#second-samuel]
== The Second Book of Samuel

*2nd Samuel | Βασιλειῶν Β' | שמואל ב*

[#ssa001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_The Amalekite who brought tidings of the overthrow and accused himself of Saul's death is slain, 1-16. David laments Saul and Jonathan with a song, 17-27._

1 Now it came to pass after the death of Saul, when David had returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites and David had stayed two days in Ziklag, 2 It came even to pass on the third day, that behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul with his clothes rent and earth upon his head. And so it was, when he came to David, that he fell to the earth and did obeisance. 3 And David said to him, "From where did you come?" And he said to him, "Out of the camp of Israel I have escaped." 4 And David said to him, "How did the matter go? I pray you, tell me." And he answered, "The people have fled from the battle and many of the people have also fallen and are dead. And Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also." 5 And David said to the young man who told him, "How do you know that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead?" 6 And the young man who told him said, "As I happened by chance to be upon mount Gilboa, behold, Saul leaned upon his spear, and behold, the chariots and horsemen followed hard after him. 7 And when he looked behind him, he saw me and called to me. And I answered, 'Here I am.' 8 And he said to me, 'Who are you?' And I answered him, 'I am an Amalekite.' 9 He said to me again, 'Stand, I pray you, upon me and slay me, for anguish has come upon me because my life is still whole in me.' 10 So I stood upon him and slew him because I was sure that he could not live after he had fallen. And I took the crown that was upon his head and the bracelet that was on his arm and have brought them here to my lord."

11 Then David took hold of his clothes and rent them. And all the men who were with him did likewise. 12 And they mourned and wept and fasted until evening for Saul and for Jonathan his son, for the people of the LORD, and for the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword. 13 And David said to the young man who told him, "Where are you from?" And he answered, "I am the son of a stranger, an Amalekite." 14 And David said to him, "How were you not afraid to stretch forth your hand to destroy the LORD'S anointed?" 15 And David called one of the young men and said, "Go near and fall upon him." And he smote him so that he died. 16 And David said to him, "Your blood is upon your head, for your mouth has testified against you, saying, 'I have slain the LORD'S anointed.'"

17 And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son 18 (He also told them to teach the children of Judah the song of the bow, as it is written in the book of Jasher):

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|19 "The beauty of Israel is slain upon your high places. [.linebr]#/# +
How the mighty have fallen!

|
|20 Do not tell it in Gath, [.linebr]#/# +
do not publish it in the streets of Askelon, [.linebr]#/# +
lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, [.linebr]#/# +
lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph.

|
|21 "You mountains of Gilboa, [.linebr]#/# +
let there be no dew, neither rain upon you, [.linebr]#/# +
nor fields of offerings, [.linebr]#/# +
for there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away, [.linebr]#/# +
the shield of Saul, as though he had not been anointed with oil.

|
|22 "From the blood of the slain, [.linebr]#/# +
from the fat of the mighty, [.linebr]#/# +
the bow of Jonathan did not turn back, [.linebr]#/# +
and the sword of Saul did not return empty.

|
|23 "Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives, [.linebr]#/# +
and in their death they were not divided. [.linebr]#/# +
They were swifter than eagles, [.linebr]#/# +
they were stronger than lions.

|
|24 "You daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, [.linebr]#/# +
who clothed you in scarlet with other delights, [.linebr]#/# +
who put ornaments of gold upon your apparel.

|
|25 "How the mighty have fallen in the midst of the battle! [.linebr]#/# +
O Jonathan you were slain in your high places.

|
|26 I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan. [.linebr]#/# +
Very pleasant you have been to me. [.linebr]#/# +
Your love to me was wonderful, [.linebr]#/# +
passing the love of women.

|
|27 "How the mighty have fallen [.linebr]#/# +
and the weapons of war perished!"
|===

[#ssa002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_David, by God's direction, with his company goes up to Hebron where he is made king of Judah, 1-4. He commends those of Jabesh-gilead for their kindness to Saul, 5-7. Abner makes Ish-bosheth king of Israel, 8-11. A mortal skirmish between twelve of Abner's and twelve of Joab's men, 12-17. Asahel is slain, 18-24. At Abner's motion, Joab sounds a retreat, 25-31. Asahel's burial, 32._

1 And it came to pass after this, that David inquired of the LORD, saying, "Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah?" And the LORD said to him, "Go up." And David said, "Where shall I go up?" And he said, "To Hebron." 2 So David went up there, and his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite. 3 And his men who were with him David brought up, every man with his household. And they dwelt in the cities of Hebron. 4 And the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. And they told David, saying, "The men of Jabesh-gilead were those who buried Saul." 5 And David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh-gilead and said to them, "Blessed are you of the LORD in that you have shown this kindness to your lord, even to Saul, and have buried him. 6 And now, may the LORD show kindness and truth to you. And I also will requite you this kindness because you have done this thing. 7 And now, let your hands be strengthened, and be valiant, for your master Saul is dead, and also the house of Judah has anointed me king over them."

8 But Abner the son of Ner, captain of Saul's host, took Ish-bosheth the son of Saul and brought him over to Mahanaim, 9 And he made him king over Gilead, over the Ashurites, over Jezreel, over Ephraim, over Benjamin, and over all Israel. 10 Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel, and he reigned two years. But the house of Judah followed David. 11 And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months.

12 And Abner the son of Ner and the servants of Ish-bosheth the son of Saul went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon. 13 And Joab the son of Zeruiah and the servants of David went out and met together by the pool of Gibeon. And they sat down, one on one side of the pool and the other on the other side of the pool. 14 And Abner said to Joab, "Let the young men now arise and compete before us." And Joab said, "Let them arise." 15 Then there arose and went over by number twelve from Benjamin, who pertained to Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, and twelve from the servants of David. 16 And they each caught his fellow by the head and thrust his sword in his fellow's side so that they fell down together. Therefore, that place was called Helkath-hazzurim, which is in Gibeon. 17 And there was a very severe battle that day. And Abner was defeated, along with the men of Israel, before the servants of David.

18 And there were three sons of Zeruiah there: Joab, Abishai, and Asahel. And Asahel was as light of foot as a wild gazelle. 19 And Asahel pursued after Abner, and in going he did not turn to the right hand nor to the left from following Abner. 20 Then Abner looked behind him and said, "Are you Asahel?" And he answered, "I am." 21 And Abner said to him, "Turn aside to your right hand or to your left, lay hold upon one of the young men, and take for yourself his armor." But Asahel would not turn aside from following him. 22 And Abner said again to Asahel, "Turn aside from following me. Why should I smite you to the ground? How then should I hold up my face to Joab your brother?" 23 But he refused to turn aside; therefore, Abner with the back end of the spear smote him under the fifth rib so that the spear came out behind him. And he fell down there and died in the same place. And it came to pass, that everyone stood still who came to the place where Asahel fell down and died.

24 Also, Joab and Abishai pursued Abner. And the sun went down when they had come to the hill of Ammah that lies before Giah by the way of the wilderness of Gibeon. 25 And the children of Benjamin assembled themselves after Abner, became one troop, and stood on the top of a hill. 26 Then Abner called to Joab and said, "Shall the sword devour forever? Do you not know that it will be bitterness in the latter end? How long shall it be then before you will bid the people return from following their brothers?" 27 And Joab said, "As God lives, unless you had spoken, surely then in the morning the people had gone up, each from following his brother." 28 So Joab blew a trumpet, and all the people stood still and no longer pursued Israel, neither did they fight anymore. 29 And Abner and his men walked all that night through the plain. And they passed over the Jordan, went through all Bithron, and came to Mahanaim.

30 And Joab returned from following Abner. And when he had assembled all the people, there lacked of David's servants nineteen men and Asahel. 31 But the servants of David had smitten three hundred and sixty men of Benjamin and of Abner's men so that they died. 32 And they took up Asahel and buried him in the sepulcher of his father, which was in Beth-lehem. And Joab and his men went all night and came to Hebron at the break of day.

[#ssa003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_During the war, David still grows stronger, 1. Six sons are born to him in Hebron, 2-5. Abner, displeased with Ish-bosheth, offers services to David, 6-12. David requires as a condition to bring him his wife Michal, 13-16. Abner communicates with the Israelites, and David makes him a feast and dismisses him, 17-21. Joab, returning from battle, is displeased with the king and kills Abner, 22-27. David curses Joab, 28-30; and mourns for Abner, 31-39._

1 Now there was a long war between the house of Saul and the house of David, but David grew stronger and stronger, and the house of Saul became weaker and weaker.

2 And sons were born to David in Hebron: his first-born was Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; 3 His second, Chileab, of Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite; the third, Absalom the son of Maacah, the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; 4 The fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital; 5 And the sixth, Ithream, by Eglah, David's wife. These were born to David in Hebron.

6 And it came to pass, while there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David, that Abner made himself strong for the house of Saul. 7 And Saul had a concubine whose name was Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah. And Ish-bosheth said to Abner, "Why have you gone in to my father's concubine?" 8 Then Abner was very angry because of the words of Ish-bosheth and said, "Am I a dog's head of Judah? I show kindness this day to the house of Saul your father, to his brothers, and to his friends, and have not delivered you into the hand of David, and yet you charge me today with a fault concerning this woman. 9 May God do so to Abner and more also, unless, as the LORD has sworn to David, I do this for him: 10 To translate the kingdom from the house of Saul and to set up the throne of David over Israel and over Judah from Dan even to Beer-sheba." 11 And he could not answer Abner a word again because he feared him.

12 And Abner sent messengers to David on his behalf, saying, "Whose is the land?" and also saying, "Make your league with me, and behold, my hand shall be with you to bring about all Israel to you." 13 And he said, "Good. I will make a league with you. But one thing I require of you, that is, you shall not see my face unless you first bring Michal, Saul's daughter, when you come to see my face." 14 And David sent messengers to Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, saying, "Deliver to me my wife Michal, whom I espoused to myself for one hundred foreskins of the Philistines." 15 And Ish-bosheth sent and took her from her husband, even from Phaltiel the son of Laish. 16 And her husband went with her, weeping behind her to Bahurim. Then Abner said to him, "Go, return." And he returned.

17 And Abner had communication with the elders of Israel, saying, "You sought for David in times past to be king over you. 18 Now then do it, for the LORD has spoken of David, saying, 'By the hand of my servant David I will save my people Israel from the hand of the Philistines and from the hand of all their enemies.'" 19 And Abner also spoke in the ears of Benjamin. And Abner also went to speak in the ears of David in Hebron all that seemed good to Israel and that seemed good to the whole house of Benjamin.

20 So Abner came to David in Hebron, and twenty men with him. And David made Abner and the men who were with him a feast. 21 And Abner said to David, "I will arise and go and gather all Israel to my lord the king so that they may make a league with you and that you may reign over all that your heart desires." And David sent Abner away, and he went in peace.

22 And behold, the servants of David and Joab came from pursuing a troop and brought in a large amount of plunder with them, but Abner was not with David in Hebron, for he had sent him away, and he had gone in peace. 23 When Joab and all the host that was with him had come, they told Joab, saying, "Abner the son of Ner came to the king, and he has sent him away, and he has gone in peace." 24 Then Joab came to the king and said, "What have you done? Behold, Abner came to you. Why is it that you have sent him away, and he is quite gone? 25 You know Abner the son of Ner, that he came to deceive you, to know your going out and your coming in and to know all that you do."

26 And when Joab had come out from David, he sent messengers after Abner, who brought him back from the well of Sirah. But David did not know it. 27 And when Abner had returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside in the gate to speak with him quietly and smote him there under the fifth rib so that he died for the blood of Asahel his brother. 28 And afterward when David heard it, he said, "I and my kingdom are guiltless before the LORD forever from the blood of Abner the son of Ner. 29 Let it rest on the head of Joab and on all his father's house, and let there not fail from the house of Joab one who has an issue, who is a leper, who leans on a staff, who falls on the sword, or who lacks bread." 30 So Joab and Abishai his brother slew Abner because he had slain their brother Asahel at Gibeon in the battle.

31 And David said to Joab and to all the people who were with him, "Rend your clothes, gird yourselves with sackcloth, and mourn before Abner." And king David himself followed the bier. 32 And they buried Abner in Hebron. And the king lifted up his voice and wept at the grave of Abner. And all the people wept. 33 And the king lamented over Abner and said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Should Abner die as a fool dies?

|
|34 Your hands were not bound, [.linebr]#/# +
nor your feet put into fetters. [.linebr]#/# +
As a man falls before wicked men, [.linebr]#/# +
so you fell."
|===

And all the people wept again over him. 35 And when all the people came to cause David to eat food while it was still day, David swore, saying, "May God do so to me and more also if I taste bread or anything else until the sun is down." 36 And all the people took notice of it, and it pleased them, as whatever the king did pleased all the people. 37 For all the people and all Israel understood that day that it was not of the king to slay Abner the son of Ner. 38 And the king said to his servants, "Do you not know that a prince and a great man has fallen this day in Israel? 39 And I am this day weak, though anointed king. And these men, the sons of Zeruiah, are too hard for me. The LORD shall reward the doer of evil according to his wickedness."

[#ssa004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_The Israelites are troubled at the death of Abner, 1. Baanah and Rechab slay Ish-bosheth and bring his head to Hebron, 2-8. David causes them to be slain and Ish-bosheth's head to be buried, 9-12._

1 And when Saul's son heard that Abner was dead in Hebron, his hands were feeble, and all the Israelites were troubled. 2 And Saul's son had two men who were captains of bands: the name of one was Baanah and the name of the other Rechab, the sons of Rimmon a Beerothite, of the children of Benjamin (for Beeroth also was reckoned to Benjamin, 3 And the Beerothites fled to Gittaim and have been sojourners there until this day).

4 And Jonathan, Saul's son, had a son who was lame in his feet. He was five years old when the tidings of Saul and Jonathan came out of Jezreel, and his nurse took him up and fled. And it came to pass, as she made haste to flee, that he fell and became lame. And his name was Mephibosheth.

5 And the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, went and came at about the heat of the day to the house of Ish-bosheth, who lay on a bed at noon. 6 And they came there into the midst of the house, as though they would have fetched wheat, and they smote him under the fifth rib. And Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped. 7 For when they came into the house, he lay on his bed in his bed-chamber, and they smote him, slew him, beheaded him, and took his head and went away through the plain all night. 8 And they brought the head of Ish-bosheth to David at Hebron and said to the king, "Behold the head of Ish-bosheth the son of Saul your enemy, who sought your life. And the LORD has avenged my lord the king this day of Saul and of his offspring."

9 And David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, and said to them, "As the LORD lives, who has redeemed my soul out of all adversity, 10 When someone told me, saying, 'Behold, Saul is dead,' (thinking to have brought good tidings), I took hold of him and slew him in Ziklag, which was the reward I gave him for his tidings. 11 How much more, when wicked men have slain a righteous person in his own house upon his bed, should I not now require his blood at your hand and take you away from the earth?" 12 And David commanded his young men, and they slew them, cut off their hands and their feet, and hanged them over the pool in Hebron. But they took the head of Ish-bosheth and buried it in the sepulcher of Abner in Hebron.

[#ssa005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_The tribes come to Hebron and anoint David over Israel, 1-3. David's age, 4, 5. Taking Zion from the Jebusites, he dwells in it, 6-10. Hiram sends to David, 11, 12. Eleven sons are born to him in Jerusalem, 13-16. David, directed by God, smites the Philistines at Baal-perazim, 17-21; and again at the mulberry trees, 22-25._

1 Then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and spoke, saying, "Behold, we are your bone and your flesh. 2 Also in time past, when Saul was king over us, you were the one who led out and brought in Israel. And the LORD said to you, 'You shall feed my people Israel and you shall be a captain over Israel.'" 3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and king David made a league with them in Hebron before the LORD. And they anointed David king over Israel. 4 David was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years. 5 In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months. And in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years over all Israel and Judah.

6 And the king and his men went to Jerusalem to the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, who spoke to David, saying, "Unless you take away the blind and the lame, you shall not come in here," thinking David could not get in there. 7 Nevertheless, David took the stronghold of Zion. The same is the city of David. 8 And David said on that day, "Whoever gets up to the gutter and smites the Jebusites, and the lame and the blind who are hated by David's soul, he shall be chief and captain." Therefore, they said, "The blind and the lame shall not come into the house." 9 So David dwelt in the fort and called it the city of David. And David built around from Millo and inward. 10 And David went on and grew great, and the LORD God of hosts was with him.

11 And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and also cedar-trees, carpenters, and masons, and they built David a house. 12 And David perceived that the LORD had established him king over Israel and that he had exalted his kingdom for his people Israel's sake.

13 And David took for himself more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem after he had come from Hebron. And there were more sons and daughters born to David. 14 And these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammuah, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, 15 Ibhar, Elishua, Nepheg, Japhia, 16 Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphalet.

17 But when the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel, all the Philistines came up to seek David. And David heard of it and went down to the hold. 18 The Philistines also came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. 19 And David inquired of the LORD, saying, "Shall I go up to the Philistines? Will you deliver them into my hand?" And the LORD said to David, "Go up, for I will doubtless deliver the Philistines into your hand." 20 And David came to Baal-perazim, and David smote them there and said, "The LORD has broken forth upon my enemies before me, like a breach of waters." Therefore, he called the name of that place Baal-perazim. 21 And there they left their images, and David and his men burned them.

22 And the Philistines came yet again and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. 23 And when David inquired of the LORD, he said, "You shall not go up, but make a circuit behind them and come upon them over against the mulberry-trees. 24 And let it be, when you hear the sound of a going in the tops of the mulberry-trees, you shall move quickly, for then the LORD shall go out before you to smite the host of the Philistines." 25 And David did so as the LORD had commanded him and smote the Philistines from Geba as far as Gazer.

[#ssa006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_David fetches the ark from Kirjath-jearim on a new cart, 1-5. Uzzah is smitten at Perez-uzzah, 6-8. God blesses Obed-edom for the ark, 9-11. David brings the ark into Zion with sacrifices and dances before it, 12-15. Michal despises him for his dancing, 16. He places it in a tabernacle with great joy and feasting, 17-19. Michal, reproving David for his religious joy, is childless until her death, 20-23._

1 Again, David assembled all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand, 2 And David arose and went with all the people who were with him from Baale of Judah to bring up from there the ark of God, whose name is called by the name of the LORD of hosts who dwells between the cherubim. 3 And they set the ark of God upon a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was in Gibeah. And Uzzah and Ahio the sons of Abinadab drove the new cart. 4 And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was at Gibeah, accompanying the ark of God. And Ahio went before the ark. 5 And David and all the house of Israel played before the LORD on all manner of instruments made of fir wood, even on harps, on psalteries, on tambourines, on horns, and on cymbals.

6 And when they came to Nachon's threshing-floor, Uzzah put forth his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen shook it. 7 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzzah, and God smote him there for his error. And there he died by the ark of God. 8 And David was displeased because the LORD had made a breach upon Uzzah. And he called the name of the place Perez-uzzah to this day. 9 And David was afraid of the LORD that day and said, "How shall the ark of the LORD come to me?" 10 So David would not move the ark of the LORD with him into the city of David. But David carried it aside into the house of Obed-edom the Gittite. 11 And the ark of the LORD continued in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite for three months. And the LORD blessed Obed-edom and all his household.

12 And it was told to king David, saying, "The LORD has blessed the house of Obed-edom and all that pertains to him because of the ark of God." So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-edom into the city of David with gladness. 13 And it was so, that when those who bore the ark of the LORD had gone six paces, he sacrificed oxen and fattened calves. 14 And David danced before the LORD with all his might. And David was girded with a linen ephod. 15 So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the LORD with shouting and with the sound of the trumpet.

16 And as the ark of the LORD came into the city of David, Michal, Saul's daughter, looked through a window and saw king David leaping and dancing before the LORD, and she despised him in her heart.

17 And they brought in the ark of the LORD and set it in its place in the midst of the tabernacle that David had pitched for it. And David offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before the LORD. 18 And as soon as David had made an end of offering burnt-offerings and peace-offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD of hosts. 19 And he dealt among all the people, even among the whole multitude of Israel, to the women as well as the men, to everyone a cake of bread, a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine. So all the people departed each to his house.

20 Then David returned to bless his household. And Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David and said, "How glorious the king of Israel was today, who uncovered himself today in the eyes of his servants' women-servants, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovers himself!" 21 And David said to Michal, "It was before the LORD, who chose me before your father and before all his house to appoint me ruler over the people of the LORD, over Israel; therefore, I will play before the LORD. 22 And I shall be even more vile than this and be base in my own sight. And by the women-servants which you have spoken of, by them I shall be had in honor." 23 Therefore, Michal the daughter of Saul had no child until the day of her death.

[#ssa007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_Nathan, first approving the purpose of David to build God a house, 1-3, afterward, by the word of God, forbids him, 4-11. God promises him benefits and blessings in his offspring, 12-17. David's prayer and thanksgiving, 18-29._

1 And it came to pass, when the king sat in his house, and the LORD had given him rest around from all his enemies, 2 That the king said to Nathan the prophet, "See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells within curtains." 3 And Nathan said to the king, "Go, do all that is in your heart, for the LORD is with you."

4 And it came to pass that night, that the word of the LORD came to Nathan, saying, 5 "Go and tell my servant David, 'Thus says the LORD: "Will you build a house for me to dwell in? 6 Whereas I have not dwelt in any house since the time that I brought the children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle. 7 In all the places in which I have walked with all the children of Israel, have I spoken a word with any of the tribes of Israel whom I commanded to feed my people Israel, saying, 'Why do you not build me a house of cedar?'"'

8 "Now therefore, thus you shall say to my servant David: 'Thus says the LORD of hosts: "I took you from the sheep-fold, from following the sheep, to be ruler over my people, over Israel. 9 And I was with you wherever you went and have cut off all your enemies out of your sight and made you a great name, like the name of the great men who are in the earth. 10 Moreover, I will appoint a place for my people Israel and will plant them so that they may dwell in a place of their own and move no more, neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them anymore, as formerly, 11 Even since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel and have caused you to rest from all your enemies. Also, the LORD tells you that he will make you a house. 12 And when your days are fulfilled and you sleep with your fathers, I will set up your offspring after you, which shall proceed from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. 13 He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. [[ssa007-014]]14 I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the stripes of the children of men, 15 But my mercy shall not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before you. 16 And your house and your kingdom shall be established forever before you. Your throne shall be established forever."'" 17 According to all these words and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David.

18 Then king David went in and sat before the LORD and said, "Who am I, O Lord GOD? And what is my house that you have brought me thus far? 19 And yet this was a small thing in your sight, O Lord GOD, but you have also spoken of your servant's house for a great while to come. And is this the manner of man, O Lord GOD? 20 And what can David say more to you? For you, Lord GOD, know your servant. 21 For your word's sake and according to your own heart you have done all these great things to make your servant know them. 22 Therefore, you are great, O LORD God. For there is no one like you, neither is there any God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 23 And what one nation in the earth is like your people, even like Israel, whom God went to redeem for a people to himself, to make a name for himself, and to do for you great and awesome things, driving out nations and their gods before your people, which you redeemed for yourself from Egypt? 24 For you have confirmed to yourself your people Israel to be a people to you forever. And you, LORD, have become their God. 25 And now, O LORD God, the word that you have spoken concerning your servant and concerning his house, establish it forever and do as you have said. 26 And let your name be magnified forever, saying, 'The LORD of hosts is the God over Israel.' And let the house of your servant David be established before you. 27 For you, O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, have revealed to your servant, saying, 'I will build you a house.' Therefore, your servant has found in his heart to pray this prayer to you. 28 And now, O Lord GOD, you are that God, and your words are true, and you have promised this goodness to your servant. 29 And now, let it please you to bless the house of your servant so that it may continue forever before you. For you, O Lord GOD, have spoken it, and with your blessing let the house of your servant be blessed forever."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.14]*: Quoted in xref:#heb001-005[Hebrews 1:5].

[#ssa008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_David subdues the Philistines and the Moabites, 1, 2. He smites Hadadezer and the Syrians, 3-8. Toi sends Joram with presents to bless him, 9, 10. The presents and the plunder David dedicates to God, 11-13. He puts garrisons in Edom, 14, 15. David's officers, 16-18._

1 And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines and subdued them. And David took Metheg-ammah out of the hand of the Philistines.

2 And he smote Moab and measured them with a line, casting them down to the ground. Even with two lines he measured to put to death, and with one full line to keep alive. And so the Moabites became David's servants and brought gifts.

3 David also smote Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his border at the Euphrates River. 4 And David took from him one thousand chariots, seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen. And David hamstrung all the chariot-horses, but reserved some of them for one hundred chariots. 5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David slew twenty-two thousand men of the Syrians. 6 Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became servants to David and brought gifts. And the LORD preserved David wherever he went. 7 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem. 8 And from Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took an exceeding amount of brass.

9 When Toi king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer, 10 Toi sent Joram his son to king David to salute him and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and smitten him (for Hadadezer had wars with Toi). And Joram brought with him vessels of silver, vessels of gold, and vessels of brass, 11 Which also king David dedicated to the LORD, with the silver and gold that he had dedicated from all nations which he subdued: 12 From Syria, from Moab, from the children of Ammon, from the Philistines, from Amalek, and from the plunder of Hadadezer son of Rehob, king of Zobah.

13 And David made himself a name when he returned from smiting the Syrians in the Valley of Salt, even eighteen thousand men. 14 And he put garrisons in Edom. Throughout all Edom he put garrisons, and all the people of Edom became David's servants. And the LORD preserved David wherever he went.

15 And David reigned over all Israel, and David executed judgment and justice to all his people. 16 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host, Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder, 17 Zadok the son of Ahitub and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar were the priests, Seraiah was the scribe, 18 Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over both the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and David's sons were chief ministers.

[#ssa009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_David, by Ziba, sends for Mephibosheth, 1-6. For Jonathan's sake he entertains him at his table and restores him all that was Saul's, 7, 8. He makes Ziba his farmer, 9-13._

1 And David said, "Is there anyone still left from the house of Saul so that I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake?" 2 And there was from the house of Saul a servant whose name was Ziba. And when they had called him to David, the king said to him, "Are you Ziba?" And he said, "Your servant is he." 3 And the king said, "Is there not anyone left from the house of Saul to whom I may show the kindness of God?" And Ziba said to the king, "Jonathan still has a son who is lame in his feet." 4 And the king said to him, "Where is he?" And Ziba said to the king, "Behold, he is in the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel, in Lo-debar." 5 Then king David sent and brought him from the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel, from Lo-debar. 6 Now when Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, had come to David, he fell on his face and did reverence. And David said, "Mephibosheth." And he answered, "Behold your servant!" 7 And David said to him, "Do not fear, for I will surely show you kindness for the sake of Jonathan your father and will restore to you all the land of Saul your father, and you shall eat bread at my table continually." 8 And he bowed himself and said, "What is your servant that you should look upon such a dead dog as I am?"

9 Then the king called to Ziba, Saul's servant, and said to him, "I have given to your master's son all that pertained to Saul and to all his house. 10 Therefore, you, your sons, and your servants shall till the land for him, and you shall bring in the fruits so that your master's son may have food to eat. But Mephibosheth your master's son shall always eat bread at my table." Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants. 11 Then Ziba said to the king, "According to all that my lord the king has commanded his servant, so your servant shall do." "As for Mephibosheth," the king said, "he shall eat at my table as one of the king's sons." 12 And Mephibosheth had a young son whose name was Micah. And all who dwelt in the house of Ziba were servants to Mephibosheth. 13 So Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem, for he ate continually at the king's table. And he was lame in both his feet.

[#ssa010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_David's messengers, sent to comfort Hanun the son of Nahash, are villainously treated, 1-5. The Ammonites, strengthened by the Syrians, are overcome by Joab and Abishai, 6-14. Shobach, making a new supply of the Syrians at Helam, is slain by David, 15-19._

1 And it came to pass after this, that the king of the children of Ammon died, and Hanun his son reigned in his stead. 2 Then David said, "I will show kindness to Hanun the son of Nahash, as his father showed kindness to me." And David sent to comfort him by the hand of his servants for his father. And David's servants came into the land of the children of Ammon. 3 And the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun their lord, "Do you think that David honors your father in that he has sent comforters to you? Has David not rather sent his servants to you to search the city, to spy it out, and to overthrow it?" 4 Therefore, Hanun took David's servants and shaved off one half of their beards and cut off their garments in the middle, even past the small of the back, and sent them away. 5 When they told it to David, he sent to meet them, because the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, "Remain in Jericho until your beards have grown and then return."

6 And when the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious before David, the children of Ammon sent and hired the Syrians of Beth-rehob and the Syrians of Zoba, twenty thousand footmen, and one thousand men from the king of Maacah and twelve thousand men from the men of Tob. 7 And when David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the host of the mighty men. 8 And the children of Ammon came out and put the battle in array at the entrance of the gate. And the Syrians of Zoba and of Rehob and the men of Tob and Maacah were by themselves in the field.

9 When Joab saw that the front of the battle was against him before and behind, he selected from all the choice men of Israel and put them in array against the Syrians. 10 And the rest of the people he delivered into the hand of Abishai his brother so that he might put them in array against the children of Ammon. 11 And he said, "If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall help me, but if the children of Ammon are too strong for you, then I will come and help you. 12 Be of good courage, and let us play the men for our people and for the cities of our God. And may the LORD do that which seems good to him." 13 And Joab and the people who were with him drew near to the battle against the Syrians, and they fled before him. 14 And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians had fled, they also fled before Abishai and entered into the city. So Joab returned from the children of Ammon and came to Jerusalem.

15 And when the Syrians saw that they were smitten before Israel, they assembled themselves. 16 And Hadarezer sent and brought out the Syrians who were beyond the river. And they came to Helam, and Shobach the captain of the host of Hadarezer went before them. 17 And when it was told to David, he assembled all Israel, passed over the Jordan, and came to Helam. And the Syrians set themselves in array against David and fought with him. 18 And the Syrians fled before Israel. And David slew the men of seven hundred chariots of the Syrians and forty thousand horsemen, and he smote Shobach the captain of their host, who died there. 19 And when all the kings who were servants to Hadarezer saw that they were smitten before Israel, they made peace with Israel and served them. So the Syrians feared to help the children of Ammon anymore.

[#ssa011%breakable]
=== Chapter 11

[.outline.text-center]
_While Joab besieges Rabbah, David commits adultery with Bath-sheba, 1-5. Uriah, sent for by David to cover the adultery, would not go home. 6-13. He carries to Joab the letter of his death, 14-17. Joab sends the news thereof to David, 18-25. David takes Bath-sheba to be his wife, 26, 27._

1 And it came to pass, after the year had expired, at the time when kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel. And they destroyed the children of Ammon and destroyed Rabbah. But David remained in Jerusalem.

2 And it came to pass in an evening, that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house. And from the roof he saw a woman washing herself. And the woman was very beautiful to look upon. 3 And David sent and inquired about the woman. And someone said, "Is this not Bath-sheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite?" 4 And David sent messengers and took her, and she came in to him, and he lay with her, for she was purified from her uncleanness. And she returned to her house. 5 And the woman conceived, and sent and told David and said, "I am with child."

6 And David sent to Joab, saying, "Send me Uriah the Hittite." And Joab sent Uriah to David. 7 And when Uriah had come to him, David asked him how Joab did, how the people did, and how the war prospered. 8 And David said to Uriah, "Go down to your house and wash your feet." And Uriah departed out of the king's house, and a gift from the king followed him. 9 But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord and did not go down to his house. 10 And when they had told David, saying, "Uriah did not go down to his house," David said to Uriah, "Did you not come from your journey? Why then did you not go down to your house?" 11 And Uriah said to David, "The ark, Israel, and Judah abide in tents. And my lord Joab and the servants of my lord are encamped in the open fields. Shall I then go into my house to eat, to drink, and to lie with my wife? As you live, and as your soul lives, I will not do this thing." 12 And David said to Uriah, "Stay here today also, and tomorrow I will let you depart." So Uriah stayed in Jerusalem that day and the next day. 13 And when David had called him, he ate and drank before him, and he made him drunk. And at evening he went out to lie on his bed with the servants of his lord, but did not go down to his house.

14 And it came to pass in the morning, that David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah. 15 And he wrote in the letter, saying, "Set Uriah in the front of the hottest battle and retire from him so that he may be smitten and die." 16 And it came to pass, when Joab observed the city, that he assigned Uriah to a place where he knew that valiant men were. 17 And the men of the city went out and fought with Joab, and some of the people of the servants of David fell there. And Uriah the Hittite also died. 18 Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war, 19 And charged the messenger, saying, "When you have made an end of telling the matters of the war to the king, 20 And if the king's wrath rises and he says to you, 'Why did you approach so near to the city for the fight? Did you not know that they would shoot from the wall? 21 Who smote Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth? Did a woman not cast a piece of a millstone upon him from the wall so that he died in Thebez? Why did you go near the wall?' then you shall say, 'Your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.'"

22 So the messenger went and came and related to David all that Joab had sent him for. 23 And the messenger said to David, "Surely the men prevailed against us and came out to us into the field, and we were upon them even to the entrance of the gate. 24 And the shooters shot from off the wall upon your servants. And some of the king's servants are dead, and your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also." 25 Then David said to the messenger, "Thus you shall say to Joab: 'Do not let this thing displease you, for the sword devours one as well as another. Make your battle stronger against the city and overthrow it.' And encourage him."

26 And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband was dead, she mourned for her husband. 27 And when the mourning was past, David sent and brought her to his house, and she became his wife and bore him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased the LORD.

[#ssa012%breakable]
=== Chapter 12

[.outline.text-center]
_Nathan's parable of the ewe-lamb causes David to be his own judge, 1-6. David, reproved by Nathan, confesses his sin and is pardoned, 7-14. David mourns and prays for the child while he lives, 15-23. Solomon is born and named Jedidiah, 24, 25. David takes Rabbah and tortures the people thereof, 26-31._

1 And the LORD sent Nathan to David. And he came to him and said to him, "There were two men in one city: one rich and the other poor. 2 The rich man had very numerous flocks and herds, 3 But the poor man had nothing except one little ewe-lamb, which he had bought and nourished. And it grew up together with him and with his children. It fed from his own food, drank from his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was like a daughter to him.

4 "And a traveler came to the rich man, and he spared to take from his own flock and from his own herd to dress for the way-faring man who had come to him, but took the poor man's lamb and dressed it for the man who had come to him."

5 And David's anger was greatly kindled against the man. And he said to Nathan, "As the LORD lives, the man who has done this thing shall surely die. 6 And he shall restore the lamb four-fold because he did this thing and because he had no pity."

7 And Nathan said to David, "You are the man. Thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'I anointed you king over Israel, I delivered you from the hand of Saul, 8 And I gave you your master's house and your master's wives into your bosom and gave you the house of Israel and of Judah. And if that had been too little, I would moreover have given to you such and such things. 9 Why have you despised the commandment of the LORD to do evil in his sight? You have killed Uriah the Hittite with the sword, have taken his wife to be your wife, and have slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon. 10 Now therefore, the sword shall never depart from your house because you have despised me and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife.' 11 Thus says the LORD: 'Behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house and will take your wives before your eyes and give them to your neighbor, and he shall lie with your wives in the sight of this sun. 12 For you did it secretly. But I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun.'" 13 And David said to Nathan, "I have sinned against the LORD." And Nathan said to David, "The LORD also has put away your sin. You shall not die. 14 But because by this deed you have given great occasion to the enemies of the LORD to blaspheme, the child also who is born to you shall surely die." 15 And Nathan departed to his house. And the LORD struck the child whom Uriah's wife bore to David, and he was very sick. 16 David therefore implored God for the child. And David fasted, went in, and lay all night upon the earth. 17 And the elders of his house arose and went to him to raise him from the earth, but he would not, neither did he eat bread with them. 18 And it came to pass on the seventh day, that the child died. And the servants of David feared to tell him that the child was dead, for they said, "Behold while the child was still alive, we spoke to him, and he would not listen to our voice. How will he then be grieved if we tell him that the child is dead?" 19 But when David saw that his servants whispered, David perceived that the child was dead. Therefore, David said to his servants, "Is the child dead?" And they said, "He is dead." 20 Then David arose from the earth, washed, anointed himself, changed his apparel, and came into the house of the LORD and worshiped. Then he came to his own house. And when he required, they set bread before him, and he ate.

21 Then his servants said to him, "What thing is this that you have done? You fasted and wept for the child while he was alive, but after the child was dead, you rose and ate bread." 22 And he said, "While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept, for I said, 'Who can tell whether GOD will be gracious to me so that the child may live?' 23 But now that he is dead, why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not return to me."

24 And David comforted Bath-sheba his wife and went in to her and lay with her. And she bore a son, and he called his name Solomon. And the LORD loved him, 25 And sent [a message] by the hand of Nathan the prophet. And he called his name Jedidiah, because of the LORD.

26 And Joab fought against Rabbah of the children of Ammon and took the royal city. 27 And Joab sent messengers to David and said, "I have fought against Rabbah and have taken the city of waters. 28 Now therefore, collect the rest of the people, encamp against the city, and take it, lest I take the city and it be called after my name." 29 And David collected all the people, went to Rabbah, fought against it, and took it. 30 And he took their king's crown from off his head, the weight of which was a talent of gold with the precious stones, and it was set on David's head. And he brought forth the plunder of the city in great abundance. 31 And he brought forth the people who were in it and put them under saws, under harrows of iron, and under axes of iron, and made them pass through the brick-kiln. And thus he did to all the cities of the children of Ammon. So David and all the people returned to Jerusalem.

[#ssa013%breakable]
=== Chapter 13

[.outline.text-center]
_Amnon loving Tamar, by Jonadab's counsel feigning himself sick, defiles her, 1-14. He hates her and shamefully turns her away, 15-18. Absalom entertains her and conceals his purpose, 19-22. At a sheep-shearing among all the king's sons, he kills Amnon, 23-30. David grieving at the news, is comforted by Jonadab, 31-36. Absalom flies to Talmai at Geshur, 37-39._

1 And it came to pass after this, that Absalom the son of David had a fair sister whose name was Tamar. And Amnon the son of David loved her. 2 And Amnon was so afflicted that he fell sick for his sister Tamar, for she was a virgin. And Amnon thought it hard for him to do anything to her. 3 But Amnon had a friend whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah David's brother. And Jonadab was a very subtle man. 4 And he said to him, "Why are you, being the king's son, pining from day to day? Will you not tell me?" And Amnon said to him, "I love Tamar, my brother Absalom's sister." 5 And Jonadab said to him, "Lay yourself down on your bed and make yourself sick. And when your father comes to see you, say to him, 'I pray you, let my sister Tamar come and give me food and dress the food in my sight so that I may see it and eat it from her hand.'" 6 So Amnon lay down and made himself sick. And when the king came to see him, Amnon said to the king, "I pray you, let Tamar my sister come and make for me a couple of cakes in my sight so that I may eat from her hand."

7 Then David sent home to Tamar, saying, "Go now to your brother Amnon's house and prepare food for him." 8 So Tamar went to her brother Amnon's house, and he was lying down. And she took flour, kneaded it, and made cakes in his sight and baked the cakes. 9 And she took a pan and poured them out before him, but he refused to eat. And Amnon said, "Have all men go out from me." And every man went out from him. 10 And Amnon said to Tamar, "Bring the food into the chamber so that I may eat from your hand." And Tamar took the cakes which she had made and brought them into the chamber to Amnon her brother. 11 And when she had brought them to him to eat, he took hold of her and said to her, "Come, lie with me, my sister." 12 And she answered him, "No, my brother, do not force me, for no such thing ought to be done in Israel. Do not do this folly. 13 And I, where shall I cause my shame to go? And as for you, you will be as one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore, I pray you, speak to the king, for he will not withhold me from you." 14 But he would not listen to her voice, and being stronger than she was, he forced her and lay with her.

15 Then Amnon hated her exceedingly so that the hatred with which he hated her was greater than the love with which he had loved her. And Amnon said to her, "Arise, be gone." 16 And she said to him, "There is no cause. This evil in sending me away is greater than the other that you did to me." But he would not listen to her. 17 Then he called his servant who ministered to him and said, "Now put this woman out from me and bolt the door after her." 18 And she had a garment of diverse colors upon her, for with such robes the king's daughters who were virgins were appareled. Then his servant brought her out and bolted the door after her. 19 And Tamar put ashes on her head, rent her garment of diverse colors that was on her, laid her hand on her head, and went on crying.

20 And Absalom her brother said to her, "Has Amnon your brother been with you? But hold now your peace, my sister. He is your brother. Do not regard this thing." So Tamar remained desolate in her brother Absalom's house. 21 But when king David heard of all these things, he was very angry. 22 And Absalom spoke to his brother Amnon neither good nor bad, for Absalom hated Amnon because he had forced his sister Tamar.

23 And it came to pass after two full years, that Absalom had sheep-shearers in Baal-hazor, which is beside Ephraim, and Absalom invited all the king's sons.

24 And Absalom came to the king and said, "Behold now, your servant has sheep-shearers. Let the king, I implore you, and his servants go with your servant." 25 And the king said to Absalom, "No, my son, let us not all go, lest we be chargeable to you." And he pressed him, yet he would not go, but blessed him. 26 Then Absalom said, "If not, I pray you, let my brother Amnon go with us." And the king said to him, "Why should he go with you?" 27 But Absalom pressed him that he should let Amnon and all the king's sons go with him.

28 Now Absalom had commanded his servants, saying, "Now mark when Amnon's heart is merry with wine, and when I say to you, 'Smite Amnon,' then kill him. Do not fear. Have I not commanded you? Be courageous and be valiant." 29 And the servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king's sons arose, and every man rode upon his mule and fled.

30 And it came to pass, while they were in the way, that information came to David, saying, "Absalom has slain all the king's sons, and there is not one of them left." 31 Then the king arose, tore his garments, and lay on the earth, and all his servants stood by with their clothes rent. 32 And Jonadab, the son of Shimeah David's brother, answered and said, "Do not let my lord suppose that they have slain all the young men, the king's sons, for only Amnon is dead. For by the appointment of Absalom this has been determined from the day that he forced his sister Tamar. 33 Now therefore, do not let my lord the king take the thing to his heart to think that all the king's sons are dead, for only Amnon is dead."

34 But Absalom fled. And the young man who kept the watch lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, there came many people by the way of the hillside behind him. 35 And Jonadab said to the king, "Behold, the king's sons come. As your servant said, so it is." 36 And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of speaking, that behold, the king's sons came and lifted up their voice and wept. And the king and all his servants also wept exceedingly.

37 But Absalom fled and went to Talmai, the son of Ammihud, king of Geshur. And David mourned for his son every day. 38 So Absalom fled and went to Geshur and was there three years. 39 And the soul of king David longed to go forth to Absalom, for he was comforted concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead.

[#ssa014%breakable]
=== Chapter 14

[.outline.text-center]
_Joab, suborning a widow of Tekoah by a parable to incline the king's heart to fetch home Absalom, brings him to Jerusalem, 1-24. Absalom's beauty, hair, and children, 25-27. After two years, Absalom is brought into the king's presence by Joab, 28-33._

1 Now Joab the son of Zeruiah perceived that the king's heart was toward Absalom. 2 And Joab sent to Tekoah and brought from there a wise woman and said to her, "I pray you, feign yourself to be a mourner and put on mourning apparel and do not anoint yourself with oil, but be as a woman who had a long time mourned for the dead. 3 And come to the king and speak in this manner to him." So Joab put the words in her mouth.

4 And when the woman of Tekoah spoke to the king, she fell on her face to the ground and did obeisance and said, "Help, O king." 5 And the king said to her, "What ails you?" And she answered, "I am indeed a widow woman, and my husband is dead. 6 And your servant had two sons, and the two of them strove together in the field, and there was no one to part them, but one smote the other and slew him. 7 And behold, the whole family has risen against your servant and they said, 'Deliver him who smote his brother so that we may kill him for the life of his brother whom he slew. And we will destroy the heir also.' And so they will quench my coal which is left and will not leave to my husband neither name nor remainder upon the earth."

8 And the king said to the woman, "Go to your house, and I will give charge concerning you." 9 And the woman of Tekoah said to the king, "My lord, O king, the iniquity is on me and on my father's house. And the king and his throne are guiltless." 10 And the king said, "Whoever says anything to you, bring him to me, and he shall not touch you anymore." 11 Then she said, "I pray you, let the king remember the LORD your God, that you would not allow the revengers of blood to destroy anymore, lest they destroy my son." And he said, "As the LORD lives, there shall not one hair of your son fall to the earth."

12 Then the woman said, "Let your servant, I pray you, speak one word to my lord the king." And he said, "Say on." 13 And the woman said, "Why then have you thought such a thing against the people of God? For the king speaks this thing as one who is faulty, in that the king does not bring his banished back home. 14 For we must die and are as water spilled on the ground which cannot be gathered up again. God does not respect any person, yet he devises means so that his banished is not expelled from him. 15 Now therefore, seeing that I have come to speak of this thing to my lord the king, it is because the people have made me afraid. And your servant said, 'I will now speak to the king. It may be that the king will perform the request of his servant. 16 For the king will hear to deliver his servant from the hand of the man who would destroy me and my son together out of the inheritance of God.' 17 Then your servant said, 'The word of my lord the king will now be comfortable. For as an angel of God, so is my lord the king to discern good and bad. Therefore, the LORD your God will be with you.'"

18 Then the king answered and said to the woman, "Do not hide from me, I pray you, the thing that I shall ask you." And the woman said, "Let my lord the king now speak." 19 And the king said, "Is the hand of Joab not with you in all this?" And the woman answered and said, "As your soul lives, my lord the king, no one can turn to the right hand or to the left from anything that my lord the king has spoken. For your servant Joab, he told me and put all these words in the mouth of your servant. 20 In order to change the face of the matter, your servant Joab has done this thing. And my lord is wise, according to the wisdom of an angel of God, to know all things that are on the earth."

21 And the king said to Joab, "Behold now, I have done this thing. Go therefore, bring back the young man Absalom." 22 And Joab fell to the ground on his face, bowed himself, and thanked the king. And Joab said, "Today your servant knows that I have found grace in your sight, my lord, O king, in that the king has fulfilled the request of his servant." 23 So Joab arose and went to Geshur and brought Absalom to Jerusalem. 24 And the king said, "Let him turn to his own house, and do not let him see my face." So Absalom returned to his own house and did not see the king's face.

25 But in all Israel there was no one to be so much praised as Absalom for his beauty. From the sole of his foot even to the crown of his head there was no blemish in him. 26 And when he polled his head (for it was at every year's end that he polled it; because the hair was heavy on him, therefore he polled it), he weighed the hair of his head at two hundred shekels after the king's weight. 27 And to Absalom there were born three sons and one daughter, whose name was Tamar. She was a woman of a fair countenance.

28 So Absalom dwelt two full years in Jerusalem and did not see the king's face. 29 Therefore, Absalom sent for Joab so that he might send him to the king, but he would not come to him. And when he sent again the second time, he would not come. 30 Therefore, he said to his servants, "See, Joab's field is near mine, and he has barley there. Go and set it on fire." And Absalom's servants set the field on fire. 31 Then Joab arose and came to Absalom at his house and said to him, "Why have your servants set my field on fire?" 32 And Absalom answered Joab, "Behold, I sent to you, saying, 'Come here so that I may send you to the king to say, "Why have I come from Geshur? It would be better for me to be there still."' Now therefore, let me see the king's face, and if there is any iniquity in me, let him kill me." 33 So Joab came to the king and told him. And when he had called for Absalom, he came to the king and bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king, and the king kissed Absalom.

[#ssa015%breakable]
=== Chapter 15

[.outline.text-center]
_Absalom, by fair speeches and courtesies, steals the hearts of Israel, 1-6. Under pretense of a vow, he obtains leave to go to Hebron, 7-9. He makes there a great conspiracy, 10-12. Upon hearing the news, David flees from Jerusalem, 13-18. Ittai will not leave him, 19-23. Zadok and Abiathar are sent back with the ark, 24-29. David and his company go up mount Olivet weeping, 30. He curses Ahithophel's counsel, 31. Hushai is sent back with instructions, 32-37._

1 And it came to pass after this, that Absalom prepared himself chariots and horses and fifty men to run before him. 2 And Absalom rose early and stood beside the way of the gate. And it was so, that when any man who had a controversy came to the king for judgment, Absalom called to him and said, "Of what city are you?" And he said, "Your servant is one of the tribes of Israel." 3 And Absalom said to him, "See, your matters are good and right, but there is no man deputed by the king to hear you." 4 Absalom said moreover, "Oh that I were made judge in the land so that every man who has any petition or cause might come to me, and I would do him justice!" 5 And it was so, that when any man came near to him to do him obeisance, he put forth his hand, took him, and kissed him. 6 And in this manner Absalom did to all Israel who came to the king for judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel.

7 And it came to pass after forty years, that Absalom said to the king, "I pray you, let me go and pay my vow which I have vowed to the LORD in Hebron. 8 For your servant vowed a vow while I stayed at Geshur in Syria, saying, 'If the LORD brings me back indeed to Jerusalem, then I will serve the LORD.'" 9 And the king said to him, "Go in peace." So he arose and went to Hebron. 10 But Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, "As soon as you hear the sound of the trumpet, then you shall say, 'Absalom reigns in Hebron.'" 11 And with Absalom went two hundred men from Jerusalem who were invited, and they went in their simplicity and did not know anything. 12 And Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David's counselor, from his city, even from Giloh, while he offered sacrifices. And the conspiracy was strong, for the people increased continually with Absalom.

13 And there came a messenger to David, saying, "The hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom." 14 And David said to all his servants who were with him at Jerusalem, "Arise and let us flee, or else we shall not escape from Absalom. Make speed to depart, lest he should overtake us suddenly and bring evil upon us and smite the city with the edge of the sword." 15 And the king's servants said to the king, "Behold, your servants are ready to do whatever my lord the king appoints." 16 And the king went forth, and all his household followed him. And the king left ten women who were concubines to keep the house. 17 And the king went forth, and all the people followed him, and stayed in Beth-hermak. 18 And all his servants passed on by his side, and all the Cherethites, all the Pelethites, and all the Gittites, six hundred men who came with him from Gath, passed on before the king.

19 Then the king said to Ittai the Gittite, "Why do you also go with us? Return to your place and abide with the king, for you are a stranger and also an exile. 20 You came only yesterday. Should I this day make you go up and down with us, seeing I go where I may? Return, and take back your brothers. May mercy and truth be with you." 21 And Ittai answered the king and said, "As the LORD lives and as my lord the king lives, surely in whatever place my lord the king shall be, whether in death or life, even there also your servant will be." 22 And David said to Ittai, "Go and pass over." And Ittai the Gittite passed over, along with all his men and all the little ones who were with him. 23 And all the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over. The king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people passed over toward the way of the wilderness.

24 And behold, Zadok also came, and all the Levites were with him bearing the ark of the covenant of God. And they set down the ark of God, and Abiathar went up until all the people finished passing out of the city. 25 And the king said to Zadok, "Carry the ark of God back into the city. If I find favor in the eyes of the LORD, he will bring me back and show me both it and his habitation. 26 But if he says, 'I have no delight in you,' behold, here I am. Let him do to me as seems good to him." 27 The king said also to Zadok the priest, "Are you not a seer? Return into the city in peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimaaz your son and Jonathan the son of Abiathar. 28 Behold, I will wait in the plain of the wilderness until word comes from you to inform me." 29 Therefore, Zadok and Abiathar carried the ark of God back to Jerusalem, and they remained there.

30 And David went up by the ascent of mount Olivet and wept as he went. He had his head covered and he went barefoot. And all the people who were with him each covered his head, and they went up, weeping as they went. 31 And someone told David, saying, "Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom." And David said, "O LORD, I pray you, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness."

32 And it came to pass, that when David had come to the top of the mountain, where he worshiped God, behold, Hushai the Archite came to meet him with his coat rent and earth upon his head. 33 David said to him, "If you pass on with me, then you will be a burden to me. 34 But if you return to the city and say to Absalom, 'I will be your servant, O king. As I have been your father's servant until now, so I will now also be your servant,' then you may defeat the counsel of Ahithophel for me. 35 And do you not have there with you Zadok and Abiathar the priests? Therefore, it shall be, that whatever thing you hear out of the king's house, you shall tell it to Zadok and Abiathar the priests. 36 Behold, they have there with them their two sons: Ahimaaz the son of Zadok and Jonathan the son of Abiathar. And by them you shall send to me everything that you hear." 37 So Hushai, David's friend, came into the city, and Absalom came into Jerusalem.

[#ssa016%breakable]
=== Chapter 16

[.outline.text-center]
_Ziba, by presents and false suggestions, obtains his master's inheritance, 1-4. At Bahurim, Shimei curses David, 5-8. David, with patience, abstains and restrains others from revenge, 9-14. Hushai insinuates himself into Absalom's counsel, 15-19. Ahithophel's counsel, 20-23._

1 And when David was a little past the top of the hill, behold, Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth met him, with a couple of donkeys saddled and upon them two hundred loaves of bread, one hundred bunches of raisins, one hundred of summer fruits, and a bottle of wine. 2 And the king said to Ziba, "What do you mean by these?" And Ziba said, "The donkeys are for the king's household to ride on, the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat, and the wine so that those who are faint in the wilderness may drink." 3 And the king said, "And where is your master's son?" And Ziba said to the king, "Behold, he abides at Jerusalem, for he said, 'Today the house of Israel shall restore to me the kingdom of my father.'" 4 Then the king said to Ziba, "Behold, all that pertained to Mephibosheth is yours." And Ziba said, "I humbly implore you that I may find grace in your sight, my lord, O king."

5 And when king David came to Bahurim, behold, a man came out from there of the family of the house of Saul whose name was Shimei, the son of Gera. He came forth and cursing as he came. 6 And he cast stones at David and at all the servants of king David. And all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left. 7 And thus Shimei said when he cursed: "Come out, come out, you bloody man, and you man of Belial. 8 The LORD has returned upon you all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead you have reigned. And the LORD has delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom your son. And behold, you are taken in your mischief because you are a bloody man."

9 Then Abishai the son of Zeruiah said to the king, "Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over, I pray you, and take off his head." 10 And the king said, "What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah? So let him curse, because the LORD has said to him, 'Curse David.' Who shall then say, 'Why have you done so?'" 11 And David said to Abishai and to all his servants, "Behold, my son who came forth from my body seeks my life. How much more now may this Benjaminite do it? Leave him alone and let him curse, for the LORD has bidden him. 12 It may be that the LORD will look upon my affliction and that the LORD will requite me good for his cursing this day." 13 And as David and his men went along the way, Shimei went along on the hill's side over against him and cursed as he went, threw stones at him, and cast dust. 14 And the king and all the people who were with him arrived weary and refreshed themselves there.

15 And Absalom and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him. 16 And it came to pass, when Hushai the Archite, David's friend, had come to Absalom, that Hushai said to Absalom, "God save the king. God save the king." 17 And Absalom said to Hushai, "Is this your kindness to your friend? Why did you not go with your friend?" 18 And Hushai said to Absalom, "No, but whom the LORD, this people, and all the men of Israel choose, I will be his, and with him I will abide. 19 And again, whom should I serve? Should I not serve in the presence of his son? As I have served in your father's presence, so I will be in your presence."

20 Then Absalom said to Ahithophel, "Give your counsel on what we shall do." 21 And Ahithophel said to Absalom, "Go in to your father's concubines, which he has left to keep the house, and all Israel shall hear that you are abhorred by your father. Then the hands of all who are with you shall be strong." 22 So they spread Absalom a tent upon the top of the house. And Absalom went in to his father's concubines in the sight of all Israel. 23 And the counsel of Ahithophel, which he counseled in those days, was as if a man had inquired at the oracle of God. All the counsel of Ahithophel was so, both with David and with Absalom.

[#ssa017%breakable]
=== Chapter 17

[.outline.text-center]
_Ahithophel's counsel is overthrown by Hushai's, according to God's appointment, 1-14. Secret intelligence is sent to David, 15-22. Ahithophel hangs himself, 23, 24. Amasa is made captain, 25, 26. David, at Mahanaim, is furnished with provisions, 27-29._

1 Moreover, Ahithophel said to Absalom, "Let me now choose out twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue after David this night. 2 And I will come upon him while he is weary and weak-handed and make him afraid. And all the people who are with him shall flee, and I will smite the king only. 3 And I will bring back all the people to you. The man whom you seek is as if all returned. And all the people shall be in peace." 4 And the saying was right in the eyes of Absalom and all the elders of Israel.

5 Then Absalom said, "Now call Hushai the Archite also, and let us hear likewise what he says." 6 And when Hushai had come to Absalom, Absalom spoke to him, saying, "Ahithophel has spoken after this manner. Shall we do after his saying? If not, you speak." 7 And Hushai said to Absalom, "The counsel that Ahithophel has given is not good at this time." 8 Then Hushai said, "You know your father and his men. They are mighty men and they are chafed in their minds like a bear robbed of her whelps in the field. And your father is a man of war and will not lodge with the people. 9 Behold, he is now hid in some pit, or in some other place. And it will come to pass, when some of them are overthrown at the first, that whoever hears it will say, 'There is a slaughter among the people who follow Absalom.' 10 And he also who is valiant, whose heart is as the heart of a lion, will utterly melt, for all Israel knows that your father is a mighty man, and those who are with him are valiant men. 11 Therefore, I counsel that all Israel should be generally gathered to you, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, as the sand that is by the sea for multitude, and that you should go to battle in your own person. 12 So we shall come upon him in some place where he is to be found and we will fall upon him as the dew falls on the ground. And of him and of all the men who are with him there shall not be left so much as one. 13 Moreover, if he has entered into a city, then all Israel shall bring ropes to that city, and we will draw it into the river until there is not one small stone found there." 14 And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, "The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel." For the LORD had appointed to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, to the intent that the LORD might bring evil upon Absalom.

15 Then Hushai said to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, "In this manner Ahithophel counseled Absalom and the elders of Israel, and in such a manner I have counseled. 16 Now therefore, send quickly and tell David, saying, 'Do not lodge this night in the plains of the wilderness, but speedily pass over, lest the king be swallowed up, along with all the people who are with him.'" 17 Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz stayed by En-rogel, for they might not be seen to come into the city. And a woman-servant went and told them, and they went and told king David. 18 Nevertheless, a boy saw them and told Absalom. But the both of them went away quickly and came to the house of a man in Bahurim, who had a well in his court, into which they descended. 19 And the woman took and spread a covering over the well's mouth and spread ground grain upon it, and the thing was not known. 20 And when Absalom's servants came to the woman at the house, they said, "Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan?" And the woman said to them, "They have gone over the brook of water." And when they had sought and could not find them, they returned to Jerusalem.

21 And it came to pass, after they had departed, that they came out of the well and went and told king David and said to David, "Arise and pass quickly over the water, for in this manner Ahithophel has counseled against you." 22 Then David arose, and all the people who were with him, and they passed over the Jordan. By the morning light there lacked not one of them who had not gone over the Jordan.

23 And when Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his donkey, arose, and went home to his house, to his city, and put his household in order, hanged himself, and died and was buried in the sepulcher of his father.

24 Then David came to Mahanaim. And Absalom passed over the Jordan—he and all the men of Israel with him. 25 And Absalom made Amasa captain of the host instead of Joab (which Amasa was a man's son, whose name was Ithra, an Israelite, who went in to Abigail the daughter of Nahash, sister to Zeruiah, Joab's mother). 26 So Israel and Absalom encamped in the land of Gilead.

27 And it came to pass, when David had come to Mahanaim, that Shobi the son of Nahash of Rabbah of the children of Ammon, Machir the son of Ammiel of Lo-debar, and Barzillai the Gileadite of Rogelim, 28 Brought beds, basins, earthen vessels, wheat, barley, flour, parched grain, beans, lentils, parched pulse, 29 Honey, butter, sheep, and cheese of cows for David and for the people who were with him to eat, for they said, "The people are hungry, weary, and thirsty in the wilderness."

[#ssa018%breakable]
=== Chapter 18

[.outline.text-center]
_David, viewing the armies in their march, gives them charge of Absalom, 1-5. The Israelites are sorely smitten in the forest of Ephraim, 6-8. Absalom, hanging in an oak, is slain by Joab and cast into a pit, 9-17. Absalom's place, 18. Ahimaaz and Cushi bring tidings to David, 19-32. David mourns for Absalom, 33._

1 And David numbered the people who were with him and set over them captains of thousands and captains of hundreds. 2 And David sent forth a third part of the people under the hand of Joab, a third part under the hand of Abishai the son of Zeruiah (Joab's brother), and a third part under the hand of Ittai the Gittite. And the king said to the people, "I myself will surely go forth with you also." 3 But the people answered, "You shall not go forth. For if we flee away, they will not care for us. Even if half of us die, they will not care for us. But now you are worth ten thousand of us; therefore, it is better that you give us aid from the city." 4 And the king said to them, "What seems to you best I will do." And the king stood by the gate side, and all the people came out by hundreds and by thousands. 5 And the king commanded Joab, Abishai, and Ittai, saying, "Deal gently for my sake with the young man, even with Absalom." And all the people heard when the king gave all the captains charge concerning Absalom.

6 So the people went out into the field against Israel, and the battle was in the forest of Ephraim. 7 There the people of Israel were slain before the servants of David, and there was a great slaughter there that day of twenty thousand men. 8 For the battle there was scattered over the face of all the country, and the forest devoured more people that day than the sword devoured.

9 And Absalom met the servants of David. And Absalom rode upon a mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak, and his head caught hold of the oak and he was suspended between the heaven and the earth, and the mule that was under him went away. 10 And a certain man saw it and told Joab and said, "Behold, I saw Absalom hanging in an oak." 11 And Joab said to the man who told him, "And behold, you saw him, and why did you not smite him there to the ground? And I would have given you ten shekels of silver and a girdle." 12 And the man said to Joab, "Though I should receive one thousand shekels of silver in my hand, yet I would not put forth my hand against the king's son. For in our hearing the king charged you, Abishai, and Ittai, saying, 'Beware that no one touch the young man Absalom.' 13 Otherwise, I should have wrought falsehood against my own life (for there is no matter hid from the king), and you yourself would have set yourself against me." 14 Then Joab said, "I will not wait like this with you." And he took three darts in his hand and thrust them through the heart of Absalom while he was still alive in the midst of the oak. 15 And ten young men who bore Joab's armor surrounded and smote Absalom and slew him.

16 And Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing Israel, for Joab restrained the people. 17 And they took Absalom, cast him into a great pit in the forest, and laid a very great heap of stones upon him. And all Israel fled, each to his tent. 18 Now Absalom in his life-time had taken and raised for himself a pillar, which is in the king's valley, for he said, "I have no son to keep my name in remembrance." And he called the pillar after his own name, and it is called to this day, Absalom's Place.

19 Then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said, "Let me now run and inform the king how the LORD has avenged himself of his enemies." 20 And Joab said to him, "You shall not bear tidings this day, but you shall bear tidings another day. But this day you shall bear no tidings because the king's son is dead." 21 Then Joab said to Cushi, "Go, tell the king what you have seen." And Cushi bowed himself to Joab and ran. 22 Then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok yet again said to Joab, "But whatever may come, let me also, I pray you, run after Cushi." And Joab said, "Why will you run, my son, seeing that you have no tidings ready?" 23 "But whatever may come," he said, "let me run." And he said to him, "Run." Then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the plain and outran Cushi.

24 And David sat between the two gates. And the watchman went up to the roof over the gate on the wall and lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, a man running alone. 25 And the watchman called and told the king. And the king said, "If he is alone, there are tidings in his mouth." And he came apace and drew near. 26 And the watchman saw another man running. And the watchman called to the gatekeeper and said, "Behold, another man running alone." And the king said, "He also brings tidings." 27 And the watchman said, "I think the running of the foremost is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok." And the king said, "He is a good man and comes with good news."

28 And Ahimaaz called and said to the king, "All is well." And he fell down to the earth upon his face before the king and said, "Blessed be the LORD your God who has delivered up the men who raised their hand against my lord the king." 29 And the king said, "Is the young man Absalom safe?" And Ahimaaz answered, "When Joab sent the king's servant and me, your servant, I saw a great tumult, but I did not know what it was." 30 And the king said to him, "Turn aside and stand here." And he turned aside and stood still.

31 And behold, Cushi came. And Cushi said, "Tidings, my lord the king, for the LORD has avenged you this day of all those who rose up against you." 32 And the king said to Cushi, "Is the young man Absalom safe?" And Cushi answered, "May the enemies of my lord the king and all who rise against you to do you hurt be as that young man is."

33 And the king was greatly troubled and went up to the chamber over the gate and wept. And as he went, he said, "O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! O that I had died for you, O Absalom, my son, my son!"

[#ssa019%breakable]
=== Chapter 19

[.outline.text-center]
_Joab causes the king to cease his mourning, 1-8. The Israelites are earnest to bring the king back, 9, 10. David sends to the priests to incite the men of Judah, 11-17. Shimei is pardoned, 18-23; Mephibosheth excused, 24-31; Barzillai is dismissed and Chimham his son taken into the king's family, 32-40. The Israelites expostulate with Judah for bringing home the king without them, 41-43._

1 And it was told to Joab, "Behold, the king weeps and mourns for Absalom." 2 And the victory that day was turned into mourning for all the people, for the people heard it said that day how the king was grieved for his son. 3 And the people withdrew by stealth that day into the city, as people being ashamed steal away when they flee in battle. 4 But the king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice, "O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!" 5 And Joab came into the house to the king and said, "You have shamed this day the faces of all your servants, who this day have saved your life, the lives of your sons and of your daughters, the lives of your wives, and the lives of your concubines, 6 In that you love your enemies and hate your friends. For you have declared this day that you regard neither princes nor servants. For this day I perceive that if Absalom had lived and all of us had died this day then it would have pleased you. 7 Now therefore, arise, go forth, and speak comfortably to your servants, for I swear by the LORD, if you shall not go forth, no one will remain with you this night. And that will be worse to you than all the evil that has befallen you from your youth until now."

8 Then the king rose and sat in the gate. And they told all the people, saying, "Behold, the king sits in the gate." And all the people came before the king, for Israel had fled each to his tent. 9 And all the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, "The king saved us from the hand of our enemies and he delivered us from the hand of the Philistines, and now he has fled out of the land for Absalom. 10 And Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now therefore, why do you not speak a word of bringing the king back?"

11 And king David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying, "Speak to the elders of Judah, saying, 'Why are you the last to bring the king back to his house, seeing the speech of all Israel has come to the king, even to his house? 12 You are my brothers. You are my bones and my flesh. Why then are you the last to bring back the king?' 13 And say to Amasa, 'Are you not of my bone and of my flesh? May God do so to me and more also, if you are not captain of the host before me continually in place of Joab.'" 14 And he bowed the heart of all the men of Judah, even as the heart of one man, so that they sent this word to the king, "Return—you and all your servants." 15 So the king returned and came to the Jordan. And Judah came to Gilgal to go to meet the king to conduct the king over the Jordan.

16 And Shimei the son of Gera, a Benjaminite who was from Bahurim, hastened and came down with the men of Judah to meet king David. 17 And there were one thousand men from Benjamin with him, along with Ziba the servant of the house of Saul and his fifteen sons and his twenty servants. And they went over the Jordan before the king. 18 And a ferry-boat went to carry over the king's household and to do what he thought good. And Shimei the son of Gera fell down before the king as he came over the Jordan, 19 And said to the king, "Do not let my lord impute iniquity to me, neither remember that which your servant did perversely the day that my lord the king went out of Jerusalem, that the king should take it to his heart. 20 For your servant knows that I have sinned. Therefore, behold, I have come this day, the first of all the house of Joseph, to go down to meet my lord the king." 21 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered and said, "Shall Shimei not be put to death for this because he cursed the LORD'S anointed?" 22 And David said, "What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah, that you should this day be adversaries to me? Shall any man be put to death this day in Israel? For do I not know that I am this day king over Israel?" 23 Therefore, the king said to Shimei, "You shall not die." And the king swore to him.

24 And Mephibosheth the son of Saul came down to meet the king. He had neither dressed his feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his clothes from the day the king departed until the day he came back in peace. 25 And it came to pass, when he had come to Jerusalem to meet the king, that the king said to him, "Why did you not go with me, Mephibosheth?" 26 And he answered, "My lord, O king, my servant deceived me, for your servant said, 'I will saddle myself a donkey so that I may ride on it and go to the king,' because your servant is lame. 27 And he has slandered your servant to my lord the king. But my lord the king is as an angel of God. Do therefore what is good in your eyes. 28 For all of my father's house were but dead men before my lord the king, yet you set your servant among those who ate at your own table. What right therefore do I still have to cry anymore to the king?" 29 And the king said to him, "Why do you speak anymore of your matters? I have said, 'You and Ziba divide the land.'" 30 And Mephibosheth said to the king, "Yes, let him take all because my lord the king has come back in peace to his own house."

31 And Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim and went over the Jordan with the king to conduct him over the Jordan. 32 Now Barzillai was a very aged man, even eighty years old, and he had provided the king with sustenance while he lay at Mahanaim, for he was a very great man. 33 And the king said to Barzillai, "Come over with me and I will feed you with me in Jerusalem." 34 And Barzillai said to the king, "How long do I have to live that I should go up with the king to Jerusalem? 35 I am this day eighty years old. And can I discern between good and evil? Can your servant taste what I eat or what I drink? Can I hear anymore the voice of singing-men and singing-women? Why then should your servant continue to be a burden to my lord the king? 36 Your servant will go a little way over the Jordan with the king. And why should the king recompense me with such a reward? 37 Let your servant, I pray you, return again so that I may die in my own city and be buried by the grave of my father and of my mother. But behold your servant Chimham. Let him go over with my lord the king and do to him what seems good to you." 38 And the king answered, "Chimham shall go over with me, and I will do to him that which seems good to you. And whatever you shall require of me, that I will do for you." 39 And all the people went over the Jordan. And when the king had come over, the king kissed Barzillai and blessed him, and he returned to his own place.

40 Then the king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went on with him. And all the people of Judah conducted the king, and also half the people of Israel. 41 And behold, all the men of Israel came to the king and said to him, "Why have our brothers the men of Judah stolen you away and have brought the king, his household, and all David's men with him over the Jordan?" 42 And all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, "Because the king is near of kin to us. Why then are you angry for this matter? Have we eaten at all at the king's cost? Or has he given us any gift?" 43 And the men of Israel answered the men of Judah and said, "We have ten parts in the king, and we have also more right in David than you. Why then did you despise us so that our advice should not be first had in bringing back our king?" And the words of the men of Judah were fiercer than the words of the men of Israel.

[#ssa020%breakable]
=== Chapter 20

[.outline.text-center]
_By occasion of the quarrel, Sheba makes a party in Israel, 1, 2. David's ten concubines are put in confinement for life, 3. Amasa, made captain over Judah, is slain by Joab, 4-13. Joab pursues Sheba to Abel, 14, 15. A wise woman saves the city by Sheba's head, 16-22. David's officers, 23-26._

1 And there happened to be a man of Belial there whose name was Sheba, the son of Bichri, a Benjaminite. And he blew a trumpet and said, "We have no part in David, neither do we have inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to his tents, O Israel."

2 So every man of Israel, withdrawing from David, followed Sheba the son of Bichri, but the men of Judah adhered to their king, from the Jordan even to Jerusalem.

3 And David came to his house at Jerusalem. And the king took the ten women his concubines whom he had left to keep the house and put them in custody and fed them, but did not go in to them. So they were shut up to the day of their death, living in widowhood.

4 Then the king said to Amasa, "Assemble to me the men of Judah within three days and be present here yourself." 5 So Amasa went to assemble the men of Judah, but he delayed longer than the set time which he had appointed him. 6 And David said to Abishai, "Now Sheba the son of Bichri shall do us more harm than Absalom did. Take your lord's servants and pursue him, lest he get for himself fortified cities and escape us." 7 And there went out after him Joab's men, the Cherethites, the Pelethites, and all the mighty men. And they went out of Jerusalem to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri. 8 When they were at the great stone which is in Gibeon, Amasa went before them. And Joab's garment that he had put on was girded to him, and upon it a girdle with a sword fastened upon his loins in its sheath, and as he went forth it fell out. 9 And Joab said to Amasa, "Are you in health, my brother?" And Joab took Amasa by the beard with the right hand to kiss him.

10 But Amasa took no heed to the sword that was in Joab's hand. So he smote him in the fifth rib and shed out his bowels to the ground and did not strike him again, and he died. So Joab and Abishai his brother pursued after Sheba the son of Bichri. 11 And one of Joab's men stood by him and said, "He who favors Joab and he who is for David, let him go after Joab." 12 And Amasa wallowed in blood in the midst of the highway. And when the man saw that all the people stood still, he carried Amasa out of the highway into the field and cast a cloth upon him, because he saw that everyone who came by him stood still.

13 When he was removed out of the highway, all the people went on after Joab to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri.

14 And he went through all the tribes of Israel to Abel of Beth-maachah and all the Berites. And they were assembled and also went after him. 15 And they came and besieged him in Abel of Beth-maachah and cast up a siege-mound against the city, and it stood in the trench. And all the people who were with Joab battered the wall to throw it down. 16 Then a wise woman cried out from the city, "Hear, hear! I pray you, say to Joab, 'Come near here so that I may speak with you.'" 17 And when he had come near to her, the woman said, "Are you Joab?" And he answered, "I am he." Then she said to him, "Hear the words of your servant." And he answered, "I do hear." 18 Then she spoke, saying, "They were accustomed to speak in old time, saying, 'They will surely ask counsel at Abel,' and so they ended the matter. 19 I am one of those who are peaceable and faithful in Israel. You seek to destroy a city and a mother in Israel. Why will you swallow up the inheritance of the LORD?" 20 And Joab answered and said, "Far be it, far be it from me that I should swallow up or destroy. 21 The matter is not so. But a man of mount Ephraim, Sheba the son of Bichri by name, has lifted up his hand against the king, even against David. Deliver him only, and I will depart from the city." And the woman said to Joab, "Behold, his head shall be thrown to you over the wall." 22 Then the woman went to all the people in her wisdom. And they cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bichri and cast it out to Joab. And he blew a trumpet and they retired from the city, every man to his tent. And Joab returned to the king at Jerusalem.

23 Now Joab was over all the host of Israel, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and over the Pelethites, 24 Adoram was over the tribute, Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder, 25 Sheva was scribe, Zadok and Abiathar were the priests, 26 And Ira the Jairite was also a chief minister to David.

[#ssa021%breakable]
=== Chapter 21

[.outline.text-center]
_Three years of famine on account of the Gibeonites ceases by hanging seven of Saul's sons, 1-9. Rizpah's kindness to the dead, 10, 11. David buries the bones of Saul and Jonathan in his father's sepulcher, 12-14. Four battles against the Philistines, wherein four of David's valiant men slay four giants, 15-22._

1 Then there was a famine in the days of David for three years, year after year. And David inquired of the LORD. And the LORD answered, "It is for Saul and for his bloody house because he slew the Gibeonites." 2 And the king called the Gibeonites and spoke to them. (Now the Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel, but of the remnant of the Amorites. And the children of Israel had sworn to them, but Saul sought to slay them in his zeal to the children of Israel and Judah.) 3 Therefore, David said to the Gibeonites, "What shall I do for you? And with what shall I make the atonement so that you may bless the inheritance of the LORD?" 4 And the Gibeonites said to him, "We will have no silver or gold from Saul or from his house, neither for us shall you kill any man in Israel." And he said, "What you say, that I will do for you." 5 And they answered the king, "The man who consumed us and who devised against us that we should be destroyed from remaining within the borders of Israel, 6 Let seven men of his sons be delivered to us, and we will hang them up to the LORD in Gibeah of Saul, whom the LORD chose." And the king said, "I will give them."

7 But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because of the LORD'S oath that was between them, between David and Jonathan the son of Saul. 8 But the king took the two sons of Rizpah (the daughter of Aiah) whom she bore to Saul, Armoni and Mephibosheth, and the five sons of Michal (the daughter of Saul) whom she brought up for Adriel the son of Barzillai the Meholathite. 9 And he delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them on the hill before the LORD. And they fell all seven together and were put to death in the days of harvest, in the first days, in the beginning of barley harvest.

10 And Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took sackcloth and spread it for herself upon the rock, from the beginning of harvest until water dropped upon them out of heaven, and allowed neither the birds of the air to rest on them by day, nor the beasts of the field by night. 11 And it was told to David what Rizpah the daughter of Aiah the concubine of Saul had done. 12 And David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son from the men of Jabesh-gilead who had stolen them from the street of Beth-shan, where the Philistines had hanged them when the Philistines had slain Saul in Gilboa. 13 And he brought up from there the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son, and they gathered the bones of those who were hanged. 14 And the bones of Saul and Jonathan his son they buried in the country of Benjamin in Zelah in the sepulcher of Kish his father. And they performed all that the king commanded. And after that God was entreated for the land.

15 Moreover, the Philistines had yet warred again with Israel, and David went down, and his servants with him, and fought against the Philistines. And David became faint. 16 And Ishbi-benob, who was among the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear was three hundred shekels of brass in weight, he being girded with a new sword, thought to have slain David. 17 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah helped him, and smote the Philistine and killed him. Then the men of David swore to him, saying, "You shall no longer go out with us to battle so that you may not extinguish the light of Israel."

18 And it came to pass after this, that there was again a battle with the Philistines at Gob. Then Sibbechai the Hushathite slew Saph, who was among the sons of the giant. 19 And there was again a battle in Gob with the Philistines where Elhanan the son of Jaareoregim, a Beth-lehemite, slew the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam. 20 And there was another battle in Gath, where there was a man of great stature who had on every hand six fingers and on every foot six toes, twenty-four in number, and he also was born to the giant. 21 And when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimeah the brother of David slew him. 22 These four were born to the giant in Gath and fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants.

[#ssa022%breakable]
=== Chapter 22

[.outline.text-center]
_David's psalm of thanksgiving for God's powerful deliverance and manifold blessings, 1-51._

1 And David spoke to the LORD the words of this song in the day that the LORD had delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. 2 And he said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"The LORD is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer,

|
|3 My God, my rock in whom I will trust. [.linebr]#/# +
He is my shield and the horn of my salvation, [.linebr]#/# +
my high tower and my refuge, my preserver. [.linebr]#/# +
You save me from violence.

|
|4 I will call on the LORD who is worthy to be praised. [.linebr]#/# +
So I shall be saved from my enemies.

|
|5 "When the waves of death compassed me, [.linebr]#/# +
the floods of ungodly men made me afraid.

|
|6 The sorrows of hell encompassed me. [.linebr]#/# +
The snares of death seized me.

|
|7 "In my distress I called upon the LORD [.linebr]#/# +
and cried to my God. [.linebr]#/# +
And he heard my voice out of his temple, [.linebr]#/# +
and my cry entered into his ears.

|
|8 "Then the earth shook and trembled. [.linebr]#/# +
The foundations of heaven moved [.linebr]#/# +
and shook because he was angry.

|
|9 There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, [.linebr]#/# +
and fire out of his mouth devoured. [.linebr]#/# +
Coals were kindled by it.

|
|10 He bowed the heavens also, and came down, [.linebr]#/# +
and darkness was under his feet.

|
|[[ssa022-011]]11 And he rode upon a cherub and flew, [.linebr]#/# +
and he was seen upon the wings of the wind.

|
|12 And he made darkness a pavilion around him, [.linebr]#/# +
a gathering of dark waters and thick clouds of the skies.

|
|13 Through the brightness before him [.linebr]#/# +
coals of fire were kindled.

|
|14 The LORD thundered from heaven, [.linebr]#/# +
and the most High uttered his voice.

|
|15 And he sent out arrows and scattered them, [.linebr]#/# +
lightning, and completely defeated them.

|
|16 And the channels of the sea appeared, [.linebr]#/# +
the foundations of the world were laid open, [.linebr]#/# +
at the rebuking of the LORD, [.linebr]#/# +
at the blast of the breath of his nostrils.

|
|17 "He sent from above and he took me. [.linebr]#/# +
He drew me out of many waters.

|
|18 He delivered me from my strong enemy, [.linebr]#/# +
from those who hated me, [.linebr]#/# +
for they were too strong for me.

|
|19 They fell upon me in the day of my calamity, [.linebr]#/# +
but the LORD was my support.

|
|20 He brought me forth also into a large place. [.linebr]#/# +
He delivered me because he delighted in me.

|
|21 "The LORD rewarded me [.linebr]#/# +
according to my righteousness. [.linebr]#/# +
According to the cleanness of my hands [.linebr]#/# +
he has recompensed me.

|
|22 For I have kept the ways of the LORD [.linebr]#/# +
and have not wickedly departed from my God.

|
|23 For all his judgments were before me. [.linebr]#/# +
And as for his statutes, I did not depart from them.

|
|24 I was also upright before him [.linebr]#/# +
and have kept myself from my iniquity.

|
|25 Therefore, the LORD has recompensed me [.linebr]#/# +
according to my righteousness, [.linebr]#/# +
according to my cleanness in his eye-sight.

|
|26 "With the merciful you will show yourself merciful, [.linebr]#/# +
and with the upright man you will show yourself upright.

|
|27 With the pure you will show yourself pure, [.linebr]#/# +
and with the perverse you will contend.

|
|28 And the afflicted people you will save, [.linebr]#/# +
but your eyes are upon the haughty [.linebr]#/# +
so that you may bring them down.

|
|29 For you are my lamp, O LORD. [.linebr]#/# +
And the LORD will lighten my darkness.

|
|30 For by you I have run through a troop. [.linebr]#/# +
By my God I have leaped over a wall.

|
|31 As for God, his way is perfect. [.linebr]#/# +
The word of the LORD is tried. [.linebr]#/# +
He is a buckler to all those who trust in him.

|
|32 "For who is God, except the LORD? [.linebr]#/# +
And who is a rock, except our God?

|
|33 God is my strength and power, [.linebr]#/# +
and he makes my way perfect.

|
|34 He makes my feet like those of a doe [.linebr]#/# +
and sets me upon my high places.

|
|35 He teaches my hands to war [.linebr]#/# +
so that a bow of steel is broken by my arms.

|
|36 You have also given me the shield of your salvation, [.linebr]#/# +
and your gentleness has made me great.

|
|37 You have enlarged my steps under me [.linebr]#/# +
so that my feet have not slipped.

|
|38 I have pursued my enemies and destroyed them, [.linebr]#/# +
and did not turn back until I had consumed them.

|
|39 And I have consumed them and wounded them [.linebr]#/# +
so that they could not arise. [.linebr]#/# +
Indeed, they have fallen under my feet.

|
|40 For you have girded me with strength to battle. [.linebr]#/# +
Those who rose up against me you have subdued under me.

|
|41 You have also given me the necks of my enemies [.linebr]#/# +
so that I might destroy those who hate me.

|
|42 They looked, but there was none to save, [.linebr]#/# +
even to the LORD, but he did not answer them.

|
|43 Then I beat them as small as the dust of the earth. [.linebr]#/# +
I stamped them as the mire of the street and spread them abroad.

|
|44 "You also have delivered me from the strivings of my people. [.linebr]#/# +
You have kept me to be head of the heathen. [.linebr]#/# +
A people which I did not know shall serve me.

|
|45 Strangers shall submit themselves to me. [.linebr]#/# +
As soon as they hear, they shall be obedient to me.

|
|46 Strangers shall fade away [.linebr]#/# +
and shall tremble from their close places.

|
|47 "The LORD lives. [.linebr]#/# +
Blessed be my rock. [.linebr]#/# +
The God of the rock of my salvation is exalted.

|
|48 It is God who avenges me, [.linebr]#/# +
who brings down the people under me,

|
|49 And who brings me forth from my enemies. [.linebr]#/# +
You also have lifted me up on high above those who rose up against me. [.linebr]#/# +
You have delivered me from the violent man.

|
|[[ssa022-050]]50 "Therefore, I will give thanks to you, O LORD, among the heathen [.linebr]#/# +
and I will sing praises to your name.

|
|51 He is the tower of salvation for his king [.linebr]#/# +
and he shows mercy to his anointed, [.linebr]#/# +
to David, and to his offspring forevermore."
|===

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.50]*: Reference, xref:#rom015-009[Romans 15:9].

[#ssa023%breakable]
=== Chapter 23

[.outline.text-center]
_David, in his last words, professes his faith in God's promises to be beyond sense or experience, 1-5. The different state of the wicked, 6, 7. A catalog of David's mighty men, 8-39._

1 Now these are the last words of David.

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|David the son of Jesse [.linebr]#/# +
and the man who was raised on high, [.linebr]#/# +
the anointed of the God of Jacob [.linebr]#/# +
and the sweet psalmist of Israel, said,

|
|2 "The Spirit of the LORD spoke by me, [.linebr]#/# +
and his word was on my tongue.

|
|3 The God of Israel said, [.linebr]#/# +
the Rock of Israel spoke to me, [.linebr]#/# +
'He who rules over men must be just, [.linebr]#/# +
ruling in the fear of God.

|
|4 And he shall be as the light of the morning when the sun rises, [.linebr]#/# +
even a morning without clouds, [.linebr]#/# +
as the tender grass springing out of the earth [.linebr]#/# +
from clear shining after the rain.'

|
|5 "Although my house is not so with God, [.linebr]#/# +
yet he has made with me an everlasting covenant, [.linebr]#/# +
ordered in all things and sure, [.linebr]#/# +
for this is all my salvation and all my desire, [.linebr]#/# +
although he does not make it to grow.

|
|6 But the sons of Belial shall all be as thorns thrust away [.linebr]#/# +
because they cannot be taken with hands.

|
|7 But the man who touches them [.linebr]#/# +
must be fenced with iron and the staff of a spear. [.linebr]#/# +
And they shall be utterly burned with fire in the same place."
|===

8 These are the names of the mighty men whom David had: The Tachmonite who sat in the seat, chief among the captains (the same was Adino the Eznite), he lifted up his spear against eight hundred, whom he slew at one time. 9 And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo the Ahohite, one of the three mighty men with David, when they defied the Philistines who were assembled there to battle and the men of Israel had gone away. 10 He arose and smote the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand adhered to the sword. And the LORD wrought a great victory that day, and the people returned after him only to plunder.

11 And after him was Shammah the son of Agee the Hararite. And the Philistines were collected into a troop where there was a piece of ground full of lentils, and the people fled from the Philistines. 12 But he stood in the midst of the ground, defended it, and slew the Philistines. And the LORD wrought a great victory.

13 And three of the thirty chiefs went down and came to David in the harvest time to the cave of Adullam, and the troop of the Philistines encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 14 And David was then in a hold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Beth-lehem. 15 And David longed and said, "Oh that one would give me drink of the water of the well of Beth-lehem, which is by the gate!" 16 And the three mighty men broke through the host of the Philistines, drew water out of the well of Beth-lehem that was by the gate, took it, and brought it to David. Nevertheless, he would not drink of it, but poured it out to the LORD. 17 And he said, "Be it far from me, O LORD, that I should do this. Is this not the blood of the men who went in jeopardy of their lives?" Therefore, he would not drink it. These three mighty men did these things.

18 And Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief among three. And he lifted up his spear against three hundred, slew them, and had the name among three. 19 Was he not most honorable of three? Therefore, he was their captain, yet he did not attain to the first three.

20 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man, of Kabzeel, who had done many acts, he slew two lion-like men of Moab. He went down also and slew a lion in the midst of a pit in time of snow. 21 And he slew an Egyptian, a man of measure. And the Egyptian had a spear in his hand, but he went down to him with a staff, plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and slew him with his own spear. 22 Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did these things and had a name among three mighty men. 23 He was more honorable than the thirty, but he did not attain to the first three. And David set him over his guard.

24 Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty, along with Elhanan the son of Dodo of Beth-lehem, 25 Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite, 26 Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, 27 Abiezer the Anethothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite, 28 Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite, 29 Heleb the son of Baanah (a Netophathite), Ittai the son of Ribai out of Gibeah of the children of Benjamin, 30 Benaiah the Pirathonite, Hiddai of the brooks of Gaash, 31 Abi-albon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite, 32 Eliahba the Shaalbonite, (of the sons of Jashen) Jonathan, 33 Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Hararite, 34 Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai the son of the Maachathite, Eliam the son of Ahithophel the Gilonite, 35 Hezrai the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite, 36 Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite, 37 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite (armor-bearer to Joab the son of Zeruiah), 38 Ira an Ithrite, Gareb an Ithrite, 39 Uriah the Hittite; thirty-seven in all.

[#ssa024%breakable]
=== Chapter 24

[.outline.text-center]
_David, tempted by Satan, forces Joab to number the people, 1-4. The captains, in nine months and twenty days, bring the muster of one million three hundred thousand fighting men, 5-9. David repents, and having three plagues propounded by God, chooses the three days' pestilence, 10-14. After the death of seventy thousand men, David, by prayer, prevents the destruction of Jerusalem, 15-17. David, by God's direction, purchases Araunah's threshing floor, 18-24. There David builds an altar and sacrifices, and the plague is stopped, 25._

1 And again the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel and he moved David against them to say, "Go number Israel and Judah." 2 For the king said to Joab the captain of the host who was with him, "Go now through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, and number the people so that I may know the number of the people." 3 And Joab said to the king, "Now may the LORD your God add to the people, however many they may be, one hundred-fold, and that the eyes of my lord the king may see it. But why does my lord the king delight in this thing?" 4 But the king's word prevailed against Joab and against the captains of the host. And Joab and the captains of the host went out from the presence of the king to number the people of Israel. 5 And they passed over the Jordan and pitched in Aroer on the right side of the city that lies in the midst of the river of Gad and toward Jazer. 6 Then they came to Gilead and to the land of Tahtim-hodshi. And they came to Dan-jaan and around to Zidon, 7 And came to the stronghold of Tyre and to all the cities of the Hivites and of the Canaanites. And they went out to the south of Judah, even to Beer-sheba. 8 So when they had gone through all the land, they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days. 9 And Joab presented the sum of the number of the people to the king. And there were in Israel eight hundred thousand valiant men who drew the sword, and the men of Judah were five hundred thousand men.

10 And David's heart smote him after he had numbered the people. And David said to the LORD, "I have sinned greatly in what I have done. And now, I implore you, O LORD, take away the iniquity of your servant, for I have done very foolishly." 11 For when David had risen in the morning, the word of the LORD came to the prophet Gad, David's seer, saying, 12 "Go and say to David, 'Thus says the LORD: "I offer you three things. Choose one of them so that I may do it to you."'" 13 So Gad came to David and told him. And he said to him, "Shall seven years of famine come upon you in your land? Or will you flee three months before your enemies while they pursue you? Or shall there be three days' pestilence in your land? Now consider, and see what answer I shall return to him who sent me." 14 And David said to Gad, "I am in great distress. Let us fall now into the hand of the LORD, for his mercies are great. But do not let me fall into the hand of man."

15 So the LORD sent a pestilence upon Israel from the morning even to the time appointed, and seventy thousand men of the people from Dan even to Beer-sheba died. 16 And when the angel stretched out his hand upon Jerusalem to destroy it, the LORD repented of the evil and said to the angel who destroyed the people, "It is enough. Now stay your hand." And the angel of the LORD was by the threshing-place of Araunah the Jebusite. 17 And David spoke to the LORD when he saw the angel who smote the people and said, "Behold, I have sinned and I have done wickedly. But these sheep, what have they done? Let your hand, I pray you, be against me and against my father's house."

18 And Gad came that day to David and said to him, "Go up, rear an altar to the LORD in the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite." 19 And David, according to the saying of Gad, went up as the LORD commanded. 20 And Araunah looked and saw the king and his servants coming toward him. And Araunah went out and bowed himself before the king on his face upon the ground. 21 And Araunah said, "Why has my lord the king come to his servant?" And David said, "To buy the threshing-floor from you to build an altar to the LORD so that the plague may be stayed from the people." 22 And Araunah said to David, "Let my lord the king take and offer up what seems good to him. Behold, here are oxen for burnt-sacrifice and threshing-instruments and other instruments of the oxen for wood." 23 All these things Araunah gave to the king, as a king. And Araunah said to the king, "May the LORD your God accept you." 24 And the king said to Araunah, "No, but I will surely buy it from you at a price. I will not offer burnt-offerings to the LORD my God from that which costs me nothing." So David bought the threshing-floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver. 25 And David built an altar to the LORD there and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings. So the LORD was entreated for the land, and the plague was stayed from Israel.

[.text-center]
_[Tanach reading: go to xref:#first-kings[First Kings]]_
