////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#colossians]
== Paul's Letter to the Colossians

*Colossians | Προς Κολοσσαείς*

[#col001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_After salutation, Paul thanks God for their faith, 1-6; confirms the doctrine of Epaphras, 7, 8; prays further for their increase in grace, 9-13; describes the true Christ, 14-20; encourages them to receive Jesus Christ, and commends his own ministry, 21-29._

1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother,

2 To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ who are at Colossae: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

3 We give thanks to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, 4 Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love which you have to all the saints, 5 For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you have heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel, 6 Which has come to you, as it is in all the world, and brings forth fruit, as it also does in you, since the day you heard of it and knew the grace of God in truth, 7 As you also learned from Epaphras our dear fellow-servant, who is for you a faithful minister of Christ, 8 Who also declared to us your love in the Spirit.

9 For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease praying for you and making request that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding, 10 So that you may walk worthy of the Lord, pleasing him in every way, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, 11 Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, to all endurance and patience with joyfulness, 12 Giving thanks to the Father, who has made us fit to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light.

13 He has delivered us from the power of darkness and has translated us into the kingdom of his beloved Son, 14 In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins.

15 He is the image of the invisible God, the first-born of every creature. 16 For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are upon earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones, dominions, principalities, or powers. All things were created by him and for him. 17 And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. 18 And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the first-born from the dead, so that in all things he may have the pre-eminence. 19 For it pleased the Father that all fullness should dwell in him, 20 And through him to reconcile all things to himself, having made peace through the blood of his cross, whether they are things on earth, or things in heaven.

21 And you, who were formerly alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now he has reconciled 22 In the body of his flesh through death to present you holy, blameless, and unreprovable in his sight, 23 If you continue in the faith grounded and settled and are not moved away from the hope of the gospel which you have heard and which has been preached to every creature which is under heaven, of which I, Paul, am made a minister.

24 I now rejoice in my sufferings for you and fill up that which is lacking of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake, which is the church, 25 Of which I am made a minister according to the dispensation of God which is given to me for you to fulfill the word of God, 26 Even the mystery which has been hid from ages and from generations, but now is made manifest to his saints, 27 To whom God chose to make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. 28 We preach Him, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, so that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. 29 For this I also labor, striving according to his working which works in me mightily.

[#col002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_Paul still exhorts them to be constant in Christ, 1-7; to beware of philosophy and vain traditions, 8-17; worshiping of angels, 18, 19; and legal ceremonies, which are ended in Christ, 20-23._

1 For I wish that you knew what great conflict I have for you and for those at Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh, 2 That their hearts may be comforted, they being knit together in love, and to all riches of the full assurance of understanding to the acknowledgment of the mystery of God, and of the Father, and of Christ, 3 In whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. 4 And this I say, lest any man should deceive you with enticing words. 5 For though I am absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing and beholding your order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ.

6 As you have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, 7 Rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving.

8 Beware lest any man make a prey of you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. 9 For in him all the fullness of the Godhead dwells bodily. 10 And you are complete in him, who is the head of all principality and power. 11 In him you are also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, in putting off the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ, 12 Buried with him in baptism, in which you are also raised with him through the faith of the operation of God, who has raised him from the dead. 13 And you, being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he has made alive together with him, having forgiven you of all trespasses, 14 Blotting out the hand-writing of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. 15 And having disarmed the principalities and powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it.

16 Let no man therefore judge you in food, in drink, in respect of a holy-day, of the new-moon, or of the sabbaths, 17 Which are a shadow of things to come, but the body is of Christ. 18 Let no man beguile you of your reward in a voluntary humility and worshiping of angels, intruding into those things which he has not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind, 19 And not holding the head, from which all the body, being supplied and knit together by joints and ligaments, increases with the increase of God.

20 Therefore, if you are dead with Christ from the rudiments of the world, why, as though living in the world, are you subject to ordinances 21 ("Do not touch, do not taste, do not handle," 22 Which are all to perish with use), according to the commandments and doctrines of men? 23 These things have indeed a show of wisdom in will-worship, humility, and neglecting of the body, but not in any honor to the satisfying of the flesh.

[#col003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_Paul shows where we should seek Christ, 1-4. He exhorts to mortification, 5-9; to put off the old man and to put on Christ, 10, 11; exhorting to charity, humility, and other various duties, 12-25._

1 If you then are raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sits on the right hand of God. 2 Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. 3 For you are dead and your life is hid with Christ in God. 4 When Christ, who is our life, appears, you will also appear with him in glory.

5 Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth: lewdness, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry. 6 Because of these things, the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience, 7 In which you also walked formerly when you lived in them. 8 But now you also put off all these: anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, and filthy communication out of your mouth. 9 Do not lie to one another, seeing you have put off the old man with his deeds, 10 And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him who created him, 11 Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free. But Christ is all and in all.

12 Put on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, hearts of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, patience, 13 Forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man has a quarrel against any. Just as Christ forgave you, so also should you. 14 And above all these things, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. 15 And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which you are also called in one body, and be thankful. 16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. 17 And whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.

18 Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands, as it is fit in the Lord. 19 Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter against them. 20 Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well-pleasing to the Lord. 21 Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, lest they be discouraged.

22 Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye-service as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God. 23 And whatever you do, do it heartily, as to the Lord and not to men, 24 Knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance, for you serve the Lord Christ. 25 But he who does wrong will receive for the wrong which he has done. And there is no respect of persons.

[#col004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_Paul exhorts them to be fervent in prayer, 1-4; to walk wisely toward those who have not yet come to the true knowledge of Christ, 5-9. He salutes them and wishes them all prosperity, 10-18._

1 Masters, give to your servants that which is just and equal, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.

2 Continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving, 3 At the same time also praying for us, that God would open to us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds, 4 So that I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak.

5 Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time. 6 Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer every man.

7 All my state Tychicus shall declare to you, who is a beloved brother and a faithful minister and fellow-servant in the Lord, 8 Whom I have sent to you for the same purpose so that you may know our state and that he may comfort your hearts, 9 And with him, Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will make known to you all things which are done here.

10 Aristarchus, my fellow-prisoner, salutes you, along with Marcus, nephew of Barnabas (concerning whom you received commandments—if he should come to you, receive him), 11 And Jesus, who is called Justus, who are of the circumcision. These are my only fellow-workers to the kingdom of God, who have been a comfort to me. 12 Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, salutes you, always laboring fervently for you in prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. 13 For I bear him testimony, that he has a great zeal for you and those who are in Laodicea and those in Hierapolis. 14 Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas greet you. 15 Salute the brothers who are in Laodicea and also Nymphas and the church that is in his house. 16 And when this epistle is read among you, see to it that it also be read in the church of the Laodiceans and that you likewise read the epistle from Laodicea. 17 And say to Archippus, "Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you fulfill it."

18 The salutation by the hand of me, Paul. Remember my bonds. May grace be with you. Amen.
