////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#deuteronomy]
== The Fifth Book of Moses, Called Deuteronomy

*Deuteronomy | Δευτερονόμιον | דברים*

[#deu001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_Moses' speech at the end of the fortieth year, 1-5; briefly rehearsing the history of God's sending them from Horeb, 6-13; of giving them officers, 14-18; of sending the spies to search the land, 19-33; of his anger for their incredulity, 34-40; and disobedience, 41-46._

1 These are the words which Moses spoke to all Israel on the east side of the Jordan in the wilderness, in the plain over against Suf, between Paran, Tophel, Laban, Hazeroth, and Dizahab. 2 (There are eleven days journey from Horeb by the way of mount Seir to Kadesh-barnea.) 3 And it came to pass in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, that Moses spoke to the children of Israel according to all that the LORD had given him in commandment to them, 4 After he had slain Sihon the king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, who dwelt at Astaroth in Edrei. 5 On the east side of the Jordan, in the land of Moab, Moses began to declare this law, saying,

6 "The LORD our God spoke to us in Horeb, saying, 'You have dwelt long enough at this mountain. 7 Turn, and take your journey, and go to the mountain of the Amorites and to all the places near it in the plain, and on the hills, in the valley, in the south, and along the sea-side to the land of the Canaanites and to Lebanon, as far as the great river, the Euphrates River. 8 Behold, I have set the land before you. Go in and possess the land which the LORD swore to your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give to them and to their posterity after them.'

9 "And I spoke to you at that time, saying, 'I am not able to bear you myself alone. 10 The LORD your God has multiplied you, and behold, you are this day as the stars of heaven for multitude. 11 (May the LORD God of your fathers make you a thousand times as many as you are and bless you, as he has promised you!) 12 How can I alone bear your encumbrance, your burden, and your strife? 13 Take wise men of understanding, and known among your tribes, and I will make them rulers over you.' 14 And you answered me, and said, 'The thing which you have spoken is good for us to do.' 15 So I took the chief of your tribes, wise men, and known, and made them heads over you, captains over thousands, captains over hundreds, captains over fifties, captains over tens, and officers among your tribes.

16 "And I charged your judges at that time, saying, 'Hear the causes between your brothers, and judge righteously between every man and his brother or the stranger who is with him. 17 You shall not respect persons in judgment, but you shall hear the small as well as the great. You shall not be afraid of the face of man, for the judgment is God's. And the cause that is too hard for you, bring to me, and I will hear it.' 18 And I commanded you at that time all the things which you should do.

19 "And when we departed from Horeb, we went through all that great and terrible wilderness, which you saw by the way of the mountain of the Amorites, as the LORD our God commanded us, and we came to Kadesh-barnea. 20 And I said to you, 'You have come to the mountain of the Amorites, which the LORD our God gives to us. 21 Behold, the LORD your God has set the land before you. Go up and possess it, as the LORD God of your fathers has said to you. Do not fear, neither be discouraged.'

22 "And each of you came near to me, and said, 'We will send men before us, and they shall explore the land for us and bring us word again by what way we must go up and into what cities we shall come.' 23 And the saying pleased me well, and I took twelve men from among you, one from each tribe. 24 And they turned and ascended the mountain and came to the valley of Eshcol and explored it. 25 And they took some of the fruit of the land in their hands and brought it down to us, and brought us word again, and said, 'It is a good land which the LORD our God gives us.'

26 "Yet, you would not go up, but rebelled against the commandment of the LORD your God. 27 And you murmured in your tents, and said, 'Because the LORD hated us, he has brought us forth from the land of Egypt to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites to destroy us. 28 Where shall we go up? Our brothers have discouraged our heart, saying, "The people are greater and taller than we are. The cities are great and walled up to heaven. And moreover, we have seen the sons of the Anakims there."' 29 Then I said to you, 'Do not dread, neither be afraid of them. 30 The LORD your God who goes before you, he shall fight for you, according to all that he did for you in Egypt before your eyes 31 And in the wilderness, where you have seen how the LORD your God bore you, as a man bears his son, in all the way that you went until you came into this place.' 32 Yet in this thing you did not believe the LORD your God, 33 Who went in the way before you to search out for you a place to pitch your tents in, in fire by night to show you by what way you should go, and in a cloud by day.

34 "And the LORD heard the voice of your words, was angry, and swore, saying, 35 'Surely there shall not one of these men of this evil generation see that good land which I swore to give to your fathers, 36 Except Caleb the son of Jephunneh. He shall see it, and to him and to his children I will give the land that he has trod upon, because he has wholly followed the LORD.' 37 Also, the LORD was angry with me for your sakes, saying, 'You also shall not go in there. 38 But Joshua the son of Nun, who stands before you, he shall go in there. Encourage him, for he shall cause Israel to inherit it. 39 Moreover, your little ones, which you said should be a prey, and your children, which in that day had no knowledge between good and evil, they shall go in there, and I will give it to them, and they shall possess it. 40 But as for you, turn, and take your journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea.'

41 "Then you answered and said to me, 'We have sinned against the LORD. We will go up and fight, according to all that the LORD our God commanded us.' And when you had each girded on his weapons of war, you were ready to ascend the hill. 42 And the LORD said to me, 'Say to them, "Do not go up, neither fight, for I am not among you, lest you be smitten before your enemies."' 43 So I spoke to you, and you would not hear, but rebelled against the commandment of the LORD and presumptuously ascended the hill. 44 And the Amorites, who dwelt on that mountain, came out against you and chased you, as bees do, and destroyed you in Seir, even to Hormah. 45 And you returned and wept before the LORD, but the LORD would not listen to your voice, nor give ear to you. 46 So you stayed in Kadesh many days, according to the days that you stayed there."

[#deu002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_The story is continued, that they were not to meddle with the Edomites, 1-8; nor with the Moabites, 9-15; nor with the Ammonites, 16-23; but Sihon the Amorite was subdued by them, 24-37._

1 "Then we turned, and took our journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea, as the LORD spoke to me. And we compassed mount Seir many days. 2 And the LORD spoke to me, saying, 3 'You have compassed this mountain long enough. Turn northward. 4 And command the people, saying, "You are to pass through the border of your brothers, the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir, and they will be afraid of you. Therefore, take good heed to yourselves. 5 Do not meddle with them, for I will not give you any of their land, not even so much as a foot-breadth, because I have given mount Seir to Esau for a possession. 6 You shall buy food from them with money so that you may eat, and you shall also buy water from them with money so that you may drink. 7 For the LORD your God has blessed you in all the works of your hand. He knows your walking through this great wilderness. These forty years the LORD your God has been with you. You have lacked nothing."'

8 "And when we passed by from our brothers, the children of Esau, who dwelt in Seir, through the way of the plain from Elath and from Ezion-gaber, we turned and passed by the way of the wilderness of Moab. 9 And the LORD said to me, 'Do not distress the Moabites, neither contend with them in battle, for I will not give you any of their land for a possession, because I have given Ar to the children of Lot for a possession.' 10 (The Emims dwelt in it in times past, a people great and many and tall as the Anakims, 11 Who also were accounted Rephaim, as the Anakims, but the Moabites call them Emims. 12 The Horims also dwelt formerly in Seir, but the children of Esau succeeded them when they had destroyed them from before them and dwelt in their stead, as Israel did to the land of his possession, which the LORD gave to them.) 13 'Now rise,' I said, 'and pass over the brook Zered.' And we went over the brook Zered. 14 And the space in which we came from Kadesh-barnea, until we passed the brook Zered, was thirty-eight years, until all the generation of the men of war were wasted from among the host, as the LORD swore to them. 15 For indeed the hand of the LORD was against them, to destroy them from among the host, until they were consumed.

16 "So it came to pass, when all the men of war were consumed and dead from among the people, 17 That the LORD spoke to me, saying, 18 'Today you are to pass over the border of Moab at Ar. 19 And when you come near over against the children of Ammon, do not distress them, nor meddle with them, for I will not give you any possession of the land of the children of Ammon, because I have given it to the children of Lot for a possession.' 20 (That also was accounted a land of Rephaim. Rephaim dwelt in it in old time, and the Ammonites call them Zamzummims, 21 A people great and many and tall as the Anakims. But the LORD destroyed them before them, and they succeeded them and dwelt in their stead, 22 As he did to the children of Esau, who dwelt in Seir when he destroyed the Horims from before them. And they succeeded them and dwelt in their stead even to this day. 23 And the Avims who dwelt in Hazerim even to Azzah, the Caphtorims, who came forth from Caphtor, destroyed them and dwelt in their stead.) 24 'Arise, take your journey and pass over the Arnon River. Behold, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land. Begin to possess it and contend with him in battle. 25 This day I will begin to put the dread of you and the fear of you upon the nations who are under the whole heaven, who shall hear report of you, shall tremble, and be in anguish because of you.'

26 "And I sent messengers from the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon king of Heshbon with words of peace, saying, 27 'Let me pass through your land. I will go along by the highway. I will neither turn to the right hand nor to the left. 28 You shall sell me food for money so that I may eat, and give me water for money so that I may drink. Only let me pass through on my feet 29 (As the children of Esau who dwell in Seir and the Moabites who dwell in Ar did to me), until I pass over the Jordan into the land which the LORD our God gives us.' 30 But Sihon king of Heshbon would not let us pass by him, for the LORD your God hardened his spirit and made his heart obstinate so that he might deliver him into your hand, as appears this day. 31 And the LORD said to me, 'Behold, I have begun to deliver up Sihon and his land before you. Begin to possess it so that you may inherit his land.'

32 "Then Sihon came out against us—he and all his people—to fight at Jahaz. 33 And the LORD our God delivered him before us, and we smote him, his sons, and all his people. 34 And we took all his cities at that time and utterly destroyed the men, the women, and the little ones of every city. We left no one to remain. 35 Only the livestock we took as plunder for ourselves, with the loot of the cities which we took. 36 From Aroer, which is by the brink of the river of Arnon, and from the city that is by the river, even to Gilead, there was not one city too strong for us. The LORD our God delivered all to us. 37 Only to the land of the children of Ammon you did not come, nor to any place of the Jabbok River, nor to the cities on the mountains, nor to whatever the LORD our God had forbidden us."

[#deu003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_The conquest of Og, king of Bashan, 1-10. The size of his bed, 11. The distribution of his lands to the two and a half tribes, 12-22. Moses prays to enter into the land, 23-25. He is permitted to see it, 26-29._

1 "Then we turned and went up the way to Bashan. And Og the king of Bashan came out against us—he and all his people—to battle at Edrei. 2 And the LORD said to me, 'Do not fear him, for I will deliver him, all his people, and his land into your hand. And you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon.' 3 So the LORD our God also delivered into our hands Og the king of Bashan and all his people. And we smote him until no one was left to him remaining. 4 And we took all his cities at that time. There was not a city which we did not take from them, sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan. 5 All these cities were fortified with high walls, gates, and bars, besides a great number of unwalled towns. 6 And we utterly destroyed them, as we did to Sihon king of Heshbon, utterly destroying the men, women, and children of every city. 7 But all the livestock and the loot of the cities we took as plunder for ourselves.

8 "And we took at that time out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites the land that was on this side of the Jordan, from the river of Arnon to mount Hermon 9 (Which Hermon the Sidonians call Sirion, and the Amorites call it Shenir), 10 All the cities of the plain, all Gilead, and all Bashan, to Salchah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan. 11 For only Og king of Bashan remained of the remnant of the Rephaim. Behold, his bedstead was a bedstead of iron. Is it not in Rabbath of the children of Ammon? Nine cubits was its length and four cubits its breadth, after the cubit of a man.

12 "And this land, which we possessed at that time, from Aroer, which is by the Arnon River, and half mount Gilead, and its cities, I gave to the Reubenites and to the Gadites. 13 And the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, being the kingdom of Og, I gave to the half-tribe of Manasseh, all the region of Argob, with all Bashan, which was called the land of Rephaim. 14 Jair the son of Manasseh took all the country of Argob to the borders of Geshuri and Maachathi and called them after his own name, Bashan-havoth-jair, to this day. 15 And I gave Gilead to Machir. 16 And to the Reubenites and to the Gadites I gave from Gilead even to the Arnon River, to the middle of the valley for a border, even to the Jabbok River, which is the border of the children of Ammon, 17 And also the plain and the Jordan as a border, from Chinnereth even to the sea of the plain, even the Salt Sea, under Ashdoth-pisgah eastward.

18 "And I commanded you at that time, saying, 'The LORD your God has given you this land to possess it. You shall pass over armed before your brothers the children of Israel, all who are suitable for the war. 19 But your wives, your little ones, and your livestock (for I know that you have a large number of livestock) shall abide in your cities which I have given you, 20 Until the LORD has given rest to your brothers, as well as to you, and until they also possess the land which the LORD your God has given them beyond the Jordan. And then you shall each return to his possession which I have given you.' 21 And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, 'Your eyes have seen all that the LORD your God has done to these two kings. Thus the LORD shall do to all the kingdoms where you pass. 22 You shall not fear them, for the LORD your God, he shall fight for you.'

23 "And I implored the LORD at that time, saying, 24 'O Lord GOD, you have begun to show your servant your greatness and your mighty hand. For what god is there in heaven or in earth who can do according to your works and according to your might? 25 I pray you, let me go over and see the good land that is beyond the Jordan, that good mountain and Lebanon.' 26 But the LORD was angry with me for your sakes and would not hear me. And the LORD said to me, 'Let it suffice you. Speak no more to me of this matter. 27 Ascend to the top of Pisgah and lift up your eyes westward, northward, southward, and eastward, and behold with your eyes, for you shall not go over this Jordan. 28 But charge Joshua, and encourage him and strengthen him, for he shall go over before this people, and he shall cause them to inherit the land which you shall see.' 29 So we stayed in the valley over against Beth-peor."

[#deu004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_An exhortation to obedience, 1-40. Moses appoints the three cities of refuge on that side of the Jordan, 41-43. Recapitulation, 44-49._

1 "Now therefore, listen, O Israel, to the statutes and to the judgments which I teach you, to do them, so that you may live and go in and possess the land which the LORD God of your fathers gives you. 2 You shall not add to the word which I command you, neither shall you diminish anything from it, so that you may keep the commandments of the LORD your God which I command you. 3 Your eyes have seen what the LORD did because of Baal-peor. For all the men who followed Baal-peor, the LORD your God has destroyed them from among you. 4 But you who adhered to the LORD your God, each of you are alive this day.

5 "Behold, I have taught you statutes and judgments, even as the LORD my God commanded me, that you should do so in the land where you go to possess it. 6 Therefore, keep and do them, for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the nations which will hear all these statutes, and say, 'Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people.' 7 For what nation is there so great that has God so near to them, as the LORD our God is in all things that we call upon him for? 8 And what nation is there so great that has statutes and judgments so righteous as all this law, which I set before you this day?

9 "Only take heed to yourself and keep your soul diligently, lest you should forget the things which your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life. But teach them to your sons and your sons' sons, 10 Especially the day that you stood before the LORD your God in Horeb, when the LORD said to me, 'Assemble the people to me, and I will make them hear my words so that they may learn to fear me all the days that they shall live upon the earth, and that they may teach their children.' 11 And you came near and stood under the mountain. And the mountain burned with fire to the midst of heaven, with darkness, clouds, and thick darkness. 12 And the LORD spoke to you out of the midst of the fire. You heard the voice of the words, but saw no similitude. You only heard a voice. 13 And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, even the Ten Commandments, and he wrote them upon two tablets of stone. 14 And the LORD commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and judgments so that you might do them in the land where you go over to possess it.

15 "Therefore, take good heed to yourselves, for you saw no manner of similitude on the day that the LORD spoke to you in Horeb out of the midst of the fire, 16 Lest you corrupt yourselves and make for yourselves an engraved image, the similitude of any figure, the likeness of male or female, 17 The likeness of any beast that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the air, 18 The likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the waters beneath the earth, 19 And lest you should lift up your eyes to heaven, and when you see the sun, the moon, and the stars, even all the host of heaven, should be driven to worship them and serve them, which the LORD your God has divided to all nations under the whole heaven. 20 But the LORD has taken you and brought you out of the iron furnace, even from Egypt, to be to him a people of inheritance, as you are this day.

21 "Furthermore, the LORD was angry with me for your sakes, and swore that I should not go over the Jordan, and that I should not enter that good land which the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance. 22 But I must die in this land. I must not go over the Jordan. But you shall go over and possess that good land. 23 Take heed to yourselves, lest you forget the covenant of the LORD your God, which he made with you, and make yourselves an engraved image or the likeness of anything which the LORD your God has forbidden you. [[deu004-024]]24 For the LORD your God is a consuming fire, even a jealous God.

25 "When you beget children and children's children, and you have remained long in the land, and corrupt yourselves and make an engraved image or the likeness of anything, and shall do evil in the sight of the LORD your God to provoke him to anger, 26 I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that you shall soon utterly perish from the land to which you go over the Jordan to possess it. You shall not prolong your days upon it, but shall be utterly destroyed. 27 And the LORD shall scatter you among the nations, and you shall be left few in number among the heathen where the LORD leads you. 28 And there you shall serve gods, the work of men's hands, wood and stone, which neither see, hear, eat, nor smell. 29 But if from there you seek the LORD your God, you shall find him, if you seek him with all your heart and with all your soul. 30 When you are in tribulation and all these things have come upon you, even in the latter days, if you turn to the LORD your God and are obedient to his voice 31 (For the LORD your God is a merciful God), he will not forsake you, neither destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers, which he swore to them.

[[deu004-032]]32 "For ask now about the days that are past, which were before you, since the day that God created man upon the earth, and ask from one side of heaven to the other, whether such a great thing as this has ever happened, or anything like it has been heard of. 33 Has any people heard the voice of God speaking from the midst of the fire, as you have heard, and lived? 34 Or has God essayed to go and take for himself a nation from the midst of another nation, by trials, by signs, by wonders, by war, by a mighty hand, by an out-stretched arm, and by great terrors, according to all that the LORD your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes? [[deu004-035]]35 To you it was shown so that you might know that the LORD is God. There is no one besides him. 36 Out of heaven he made you to hear his voice so that he might instruct you. And upon earth he showed you his great fire, and you heard his words from the midst of the fire. 37 And because he loved your fathers, therefore he chose their offspring after them and brought you out of Egypt in his sight with his mighty power, 38 To drive out from before you nations greater and mightier than you are, and to bring you in and give you their land for an inheritance, as it is this day. 39 Know therefore this day, and consider it in your heart, that the LORD, he is God in heaven above and upon the earth beneath. There is no one else. 40 Therefore, you shall keep his statutes and his commandments which I command you this day so that it may be well with you and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days upon the earth which the LORD your God gives you forever."

41 Then Moses set apart three cities on the side of the Jordan toward the sunrise 42 So that the slayer might flee there who kills his neighbor unintentionally and without having hated him in times past, and that fleeing to one of these cities he might live: 43 Bezer in the wilderness in the plain country of the Reubenites, Ramoth in Gilead of the Gadites, and Golan in Bashan of the Manassites.

44 And this is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel. 45 These are the testimonies, the statutes, and the judgments which Moses spoke to the children of Israel after they came forth from Egypt, 46 On the east side of the Jordan, in the valley over against Beth-Peor, in the land of Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon, whom Moses and the children of Israel smote after they had come forth from Egypt. 47 And they possessed his land and the land of Og king of Bashan, two kings of the Amorites who were on the side of the Jordan toward the sunrise, 48 From Aroer, which is by the bank of the Arnon River, even to mount Sion, which is Hermon, 49 And all the plain on the side of the Jordan eastward, even to the sea of the plain under the springs of Pisgah.

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.16]*: Quoted in xref:#heb012-029[Hebrews 12:29]. *[v.32]*: Possibly quoted in xref:#mth024-031[Matthew 24:31] and xref:#mrk013-027[Mark 13:27]. *[v.35]*: Quoted in xref:#mrk012-032[Mark 12:32].

[#deu005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_The covenant in Horeb, 1-5. The Ten Commandments, 6-21. At the people's request, Moses receives the law from God, 22-33._

1 And Moses called all Israel, and said to them, "Hear, O Israel, the statutes and judgments which I speak in your ears this day so that you may learn them and observe to do them. 2 The LORD our God made a covenant with us in Horeb. 3 The LORD did not make this covenant with our fathers, but with us, even us, who are all of us here alive this day. 4 The LORD talked with you face to face on the mountain from the midst of the fire 5 (I stood between the LORD and you at that time to show you the word of the LORD, for you were afraid by reason of the fire and did not go up upon the mountain), saying,

6 'I am the LORD your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage.

7 'You shall have no other gods before me.

8 'You shall not make for yourself any engraved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the waters beneath the earth. 9 You shall not bow down yourself to them nor serve them, for I, the LORD your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, 10 And showing mercy to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.

11 'You shall not take the name of the LORD your God in vain, for the LORD will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.

12 'Keep the sabbath-day to sanctify it, as the LORD your God has commanded you. 13 Six days you shall labor and do all your work, 14 But the seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD your God. In it you shall not do any work—you, your son, your daughter, your man-servant, your woman-servant, your ox, your donkey, any of your livestock, nor your stranger who is within your gates—so that your man-servant and your woman-servant may rest as well as you. 15 And remember that you were a servant in the land of Egypt, and that the LORD your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and by an out-stretched arm; therefore, the LORD your God commanded you to keep the sabbath-day.

[[deu005-016]]16 'Honor your father and your mother, as the LORD your God has commanded you, so that your days may be prolonged and that it may be well with you in the land which the LORD your God gives you.

[[deu005-017]]17 'You shall not kill.

[[deu005-018]]18 'You shall not commit adultery.

[[deu005-019]]19 'You shall not steal.

[[deu005-020]]20 'You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.

[[deu005-021]]21 'You shall not desire your neighbor's wife, neither shall you covet your neighbor's house, his field, his man-servant, his woman-servant, his ox, his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's.'

22 "These words the LORD spoke to all your assembly on the mountain from the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness with a great voice, and he added no more. And he wrote them on two tablets of stone and delivered them to me. 23 And it came to pass, when you heard the voice from the midst of the darkness (for the mountain burned with fire), that you came near to me, even all the heads of your tribes and your elders, 24 And you said, 'Behold, the LORD our God has shown us his glory and his greatness, and we have heard his voice from the midst of the fire. We have seen this day that God talks with man, and he lives. 25 Now therefore, why should we die? For this great fire will consume us. If we hear the voice of the LORD our God anymore, then we shall die. 26 For who is there of all flesh who has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as we have, and lived? 27 Go near and hear all that the LORD our God says, and speak to us all that the LORD our God speaks to you, and we will hear it and do it.'

28 "And the LORD heard the voice of your words when you spoke to me, and the LORD said to me, 'I have heard the voice of the words of this people which they have spoken to you. They have well said all that they have spoken. 29 O that there were such a heart in them that they would fear me and keep all my commandments always so that it might be well with them and with their children forever! 30 Go, say to them, "Return to your tents again." 31 But as for you, stand here by me and I will speak to you all the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments which you shall teach them so that they may do them in the land which I give them to possess it.' 32 You shall observe to do therefore as the LORD your God has commanded you. You shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. 33 You shall walk in all the ways which the LORD your God has commanded you so that you may live, and that it may be well with you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which you shall possess."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.16]*: Reference, xref:#mth015-004[Matthew 15:4], xref:#mth019-019[19:19]; xref:#mrk007-010[Mark 7:10], xref:#mrk010-019[10:19]; xref:#luk018-020[Luke 18:20]; xref:#eph006-002[Ephesians 6:2-3]. *[v.17]*: Reference, xref:#mth005-021[Matthew 5:21], xref:#mth019-018[19:18]; xref:#mrk010-019[Mark 10:19]; xref:#luk018-020[Luke 18:20]; xref:#rom013-009[Romans 13:9]; xref:#jms002-011[James 2:11]. *[v.18]*: Reference, xref:#mth005-027[Matthew 5:27], xref:#mth019-018[19:18]; xref:#mrk010-019[Mark 10:19]; xref:#luk018-020[Luke 18:20]; xref:#rom013-009[Romans 13:9]; xref:#jms002-011[James 2:11]. *[v.19]*: Reference, xref:#mth019-018[Matthew 19:18]; xref:#mrk010-019[Mark 10:19]; xref:#luk018-020[Luke 18:20]; xref:#rom013-009[Romans 13:9]. *[v.20]*: Reference, xref:#mth019-018[Matthew 19:18]; xref:#mrk010-019[Mark 10:19]; xref:#luk018-020[Luke 18:20]; xref:#rom013-009[Romans 13:9]. *[v.21]*: Quoted in xref:#rom007-007[Romans 7:7]; xref:#rom013-009[Romans 13:9].

[#deu006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_The end of the law is obedience, 1, 2. An exhortation thereto, 3-19. What they are to teach their children, 20-25._

1 "Now these are the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments which the LORD your God commanded to teach you so that you may do them in the land where you go to possess it, 2 And that you may fear the LORD your God to keep all his statutes and his commandments which I command you—you, your son, and your son's son—all the days of your life, and that your days may be prolonged. 3 Hear therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it so that it may be well with you and that you may increase mightily, as the LORD God of your fathers has promised you, in the land that flows with milk and honey.

[[deu006-004]]4 "Hear, O Israel. The LORD our God, Yahweh, is one. [[deu006-005]]5 And you shall love the LORD your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might. 6 And these words which I command you this day shall be in your heart. 7 And you shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. 8 And you shall bind them for a sign upon your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. 9 And you shall write them upon the posts of your house and on your gates.

10 "And it shall be, when the LORD your God has brought you into the land which he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give you great and beautiful cities which you did not build, 11 And houses full of all good things which you did not fill, and wells dug which you did not dig, vineyards and olive-trees which you did not plant, when you have eaten and are full, 12 Then beware lest you should forget the LORD who brought you forth from the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage. [[deu006-013]]13 You shall fear the LORD your God and serve him, and shall swear by his name. 14 You shall not go after other gods of the gods of the people which are around you 15 (For the LORD your God is a jealous God among you), lest the anger of the LORD your God should be kindled against you and destroy you from off the face of the earth.

[[deu006-016]]16 "You shall not test the LORD your God, as you tested him in Massah. 17 You shall diligently keep the commandments of the LORD your God, and his testimonies and his statutes which he has commanded you. 18 And you shall do that which is right and good in the sight of the LORD so that it may be well with you, and that you may go in and possess the good land which the LORD swore to your fathers 19 To cast out all your enemies from before you, as the LORD has spoken.

20 "And when your son asks you in time to come, saying, 'What do the testimonies, the statutes, and the judgments mean which the LORD our God has commanded you?' 21 Then you shall say to your son, 'We were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt. And the LORD brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand. 22 And the LORD showed signs and wonders, great and distressing, upon Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his household before our eyes. 23 And he brought us out from there so that he might bring us in and give us the land which he swore to our fathers.' 24 And the LORD commanded us to observe all these statutes and to fear the LORD our God, for our good always, so that he might preserve us alive, as it is at this day. 25 And it shall be our righteousness if we observe to do all these commandments before the LORD our God, as he has commanded us."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.4]*: Quoted in xref:#mrk012-029[Mark 12:29], xref:#mrk012-032[32]. *[v.5]*: Quoted in xref:#mth022-037[Matthew 22:37]; xref:#mrk012-030[Mark 12:30]; xref:#luk010-027[Luke 10:27]. *[v.13]*: Quoted in xref:#mth004-010[Matthew 4:10]; xref:#luk004-008[Luke 4:8]. *[v.16]*: Quoted in xref:#mth004-007[Matthew 4:7]; xref:#luk004-012[Luke 4:12].

[#deu007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_All alliances with the nations are forbidden, 1-4; for fear of idolatry, 5; for the holiness of the people, 6-8; for the nature of God in his mercy and justice, 9-16; for the assuredness of victory which God will give over them, 17-26._

1 "When the LORD your God brings you into the land where you go to possess it and has cast out many nations before you—the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perrizites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nations greater and mightier than you— 2 And when the LORD your God delivers them before you, you shall smite them and utterly destroy them. You shall make no covenant with them nor show mercy to them. 3 You shall not make marriages with them. You shall not give your daughter to his son, neither shall you take his daughter for your son, 4 For they will turn away your son from following me so that they may serve other gods. Thus the anger of the LORD will be kindled against you and destroy you suddenly. 5 But this is how you shall deal with them: you shall destroy their altars, break down their images, cut down their groves, and burn their engraved images with fire. 6 For you are a holy people to the LORD your God. The LORD your God has chosen you to be a special people for himself above all people who are upon the face of the earth.

7 "The LORD did not set his love upon you nor choose you because you were more in number than any people, for you were the fewest of all people. 8 But because the LORD loved you, and because he would keep the oath which he had sworn to your fathers, the LORD has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt. 9 Know therefore, that the LORD your God, he is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and mercy with those who love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations, 10 But repays those who hate him to their face, to destroy them. He will not be slack to him who hates him. He will repay him to his face. 11 You shall therefore keep the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments which I command you this day, to do them.

12 "Therefore, it shall come to pass, if you listen to these judgments and keep and do them, that the LORD your God will keep with you the covenant and the mercy which he swore to your fathers. 13 And he will love you, bless you, and multiply you. He will also bless your children, and the fruit of your land, your grain, your wine, and your oil, the increase of your cows, and the flocks of your sheep, in the land which he swore to your fathers to give you. 14 You shall be blessed above all people. There shall not be male or female barren among you or among your livestock. 15 And the LORD will take away from you all sickness, and will put none of the evil diseases of Egypt (which you know) upon you, but will lay them upon all those who hate you. 16 And you shall consume all the people which the LORD your God shall deliver to you. Your eye shall have no pity upon them, neither shall you serve their gods, for that will be a snare to you.

17 "If you say in your heart, 'These nations are more than I. How can I dispossess them?' 18 You shall not be afraid of them, but shall well remember what the LORD your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt, 19 The great trials which your eyes saw, and the signs, the wonders, the mighty hand, and the out-stretched arm by which the LORD your God brought you out. Thus the LORD your God shall do to all the people of whom you are afraid. 20 Moreover, the LORD your God will send the hornet among them until those who are left and hide themselves from you are destroyed. 21 You shall not be terrified by them, for the LORD your God is among you, a mighty and awesome God. 22 And the LORD your God will drive out those nations before you little by little. You may not consume them at once, lest the beasts of the field increase upon you. 23 But the LORD your God shall deliver them to you and shall destroy them with a mighty destruction until they are destroyed. 24 And he shall deliver their kings into your hand, and you shall destroy their name from under heaven. No man shall be able to stand before you until you have destroyed them. 25 The engraved images of their gods you shall burn with fire. You shall not desire the silver or gold that is on them, nor take it for yourselves, lest you should be snared in it, for it is an abomination to the LORD your God. 26 You shall not bring an abomination into your house, lest you should be a cursed thing like it. But you shall utterly detest it and you shall utterly abhor it, for it is a cursed thing."

[#deu008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_An exhortation to obedience in regard of God's mercy and goodness in his dealings with Israel, 1-20._

1 "All the commandments which I command you this day you shall observe to do so that you may live, multiply, and go in and possess the land which the LORD swore to your fathers. 2 And you shall remember all the way which the LORD your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, to humble you and to prove you, to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. [[deu008-003]]3 And he humbled you and allowed you to be hungry, and fed you with manna which you did not know, neither did your fathers know, so that he might make you know that man does not live by bread only, but man lives by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of the LORD. 4 Your clothing has not become old upon you, neither has your foot swelled these forty years. 5 You shall also consider in your heart, that as a man chastens his son, so the LORD your God chastens you. 6 Therefore, you shall keep the commandments of the LORD your God, to walk in his ways and to fear him. 7 For the LORD your God brings you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains, and depths that spring out of valleys and hills; 8 A land of wheat, barley, vines, fig-trees, and pomegranates; a land of olive-oil and honey; 9 A land in which you shall eat bread without scarceness, you shall not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron and out of whose hills you may dig brass. 10 When you have eaten and are full, then you shall bless the LORD your God for the good land which he has given you.

11 "Beware that you do not forget the LORD your God, in not keeping his commandments, his judgments, and his statutes which I command you this day, 12 Lest, when you have eaten and are full, when you have built good houses and dwelt in them, 13 And when your herds and your flocks multiply and your silver and your gold are increased and all that you have is increased, 14 Your heart be lifted up and you forget the LORD your God—who brought you out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage; 15 Who led you through that great and terrible wilderness, in which there were fiery serpents, scorpions, and drought, where there was no water; who brought you forth water out of the rock of flint; 16 Who fed you in the wilderness with manna which your fathers did not know so that he might humble you and that he might prove you, to do you good at your latter end— 17 And you say in your heart, 'My power and the might of my hand has gotten me this wealth.' 18 But you shall remember the LORD your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth, so that he may establish his covenant which he swore to your fathers, as it is this day. 19 And it shall be, if you at all forget the LORD your God and walk after other gods and serve and worship them, I testify against you this day that you shall surely perish. 20 As the nations which the LORD destroys before your face, so you shall perish, because you would not be obedient to the voice of the LORD your God."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.3]*: Quoted in xref:#mth004-004[Matthew 4:4]; xref:#luk004-004[Luke 4:4].

[#deu009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_Moses dissuades them from the opinion of their own righteousness by rehearsing their various rebellions, 1-29._

1 "Hear, O Israel. You are to pass over the Jordan this day to go in and dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourself, cities great and fortified up to heaven, 2 A people great and tall, the children of the Anakims, whom you know and of whom you have heard it said, 'Who can stand before the children of Anak?' 3 Understand therefore this day, that the LORD your God is he who goes over before you as a consuming fire. He shall destroy them and he shall bring them down before your face. So you shall drive them out and destroy them quickly, as the LORD has said to you.

4 "Do not speak in your heart after the LORD your God has cast them out from before you, saying, 'For my righteousness the LORD has brought me in to possess this land.' It is because of the wickedness of these nations that the LORD drives them out from before you. 5 Not for your righteousness or for the uprightness of your heart do you go to possess their land, but for the wickedness of these nations the LORD your God drives them out from before you so that he may perform the word which the LORD swore to your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.

6 "Understand therefore, that the LORD your God does not give you this good land to possess it for your righteousness, for you are a stiff-necked people. 7 Remember, and do not forget how you provoked the LORD your God to wrath in the wilderness. From the day that you departed from the land of Egypt until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against the LORD. 8 Also, in Horeb, you provoked the LORD to wrath so that the LORD was angry with you to have destroyed you. 9 When I ascended the mountain to receive the tablets of stone, even the tablets of the covenant which the LORD made with you, I stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water. 10 And the LORD delivered to me two tablets of stone written with the finger of God. And on them was written according to all the words which the LORD spoke with you on the mountain from the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly. 11 And it came to pass at the end of forty days and forty nights, that the LORD gave me the two tablets of stone, even the tablets of the covenant. 12 And the LORD said to me, 'Arise, go down quickly from here, for your people which you have brought forth out of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have quickly turned aside from the way which I commanded them. They have made themselves a molten image.' 13 Furthermore, the LORD spoke to me, saying, 'I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stiff-necked people. 14 Leave me alone so that I may destroy them and blot out their name from under heaven. And I will make of you a nation mightier and greater than they are.'

15 "So I turned and came down from the mountain while the mountain burned with fire, and the two tablets of the covenant were in my two hands. 16 And I looked, and behold, you had sinned against the LORD your God and had made yourselves a molten calf. You had turned aside quickly from the way which the LORD had commanded you. 17 And I took the two tablets, cast them out of my two hands, and broke them before your eyes. 18 And I fell down before the LORD, as at the first, forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water because of all your sins which you sinned in doing wickedly in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger. 19 (For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure with which the LORD was angry against you to destroy you.) But the LORD listened to me at that time also. 20 And the LORD was very angry with Aaron to have destroyed him. And I prayed for Aaron also at the same time. 21 And I took your sin, the calf which you had made, and burnt it with fire, stamped it, and ground it very small, even until it was as small as dust. And I cast the dust of it into the brook that descended from the mountain.

22 "And at Taberah, at Massah, and Kibroth-hattaavah, you provoked the LORD to wrath. 23 Likewise, when the LORD sent you from Kadesh-barnea, saying, 'Go up and possess the land which I have given you,' you rebelled against the commandment of the LORD your God, and you did not believe him nor listen to his voice. 24 You have been rebellious against the LORD from the day that I knew you.

25 "Thus I fell down before the LORD forty days and forty nights, as I fell down at the first, because the LORD had said he would destroy you. 26 I prayed therefore to the LORD, and said, 'O Lord GOD, do not destroy your people and your inheritance which you have redeemed through your greatness, which you have brought forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand. 27 Remember your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Do not look to the stubbornness of this people, nor to their wickedness, nor to their sin, 28 Lest the land from which you have brought us should say, "Because the LORD was not able to bring them into the land which he promised them, and because he hated them, he has brought them out to slay them in the wilderness." 29 Yet they are your people and your inheritance which you have brought out by your mighty power and by your out-stretched arm.'"

[#deu010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_God's mercy in restoring the two tables, 1-5; in continuing the priesthood, 6, 7; in separating the tribe of Levi, 8, 9; in listening to Moses' appeal for his people, 10, 11. An exhortation to obedience, 12-22._

1 "At that time the LORD said to me, 'Hew two tablets of stone like the first, and come up to me upon the mountain and make an ark of wood. 2 And I will write on the tablets the words that were in the first tablets which you broke, and you shall put them in the ark.' 3 And I made an ark of shittim wood, hewed two tablets of stone like the first, and ascended the mountain, having the two tablets in my hand. 4 And he wrote on the tablets, according to the first writing, the Ten Commandments, which the LORD spoke to you on the mountain from the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly. And the LORD gave them to me. 5 And I turned myself and came down from the mountain and put the tablets in the ark which I had made. And they are there, as the LORD commanded me."

6 "And the children of Israel took their journey from Beeroth of the children of Jakan to Mosira. Aaron died there, and he was buried there. And Eleazar his son ministered in the priest's office in his stead. 7 From there they journeyed to Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah to Jotbath, a land of rivers of waters. 8 At that time the LORD separated the tribe of Levi to bear the ark of the covenant of the LORD, to stand before the LORD to minister to him, and to bless in his name, to this day. 9 Therefore, Levi has no part nor inheritance with his brothers. The LORD is his inheritance, according as the LORD your God promised him.

10 "And I stayed on the mountain, according to the first-time, forty days and forty nights. And the LORD listened to me at that time also, and the LORD would not destroy you. 11 And the LORD said to me, 'Arise, take your journey before the people so that they may go in and possess the land which I swore to their fathers to give to them.'

12 "And now, Israel, what does the LORD your God require of you, but to fear the LORD your God, to walk in all his ways, to love him, to serve the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul, 13 And to keep the commandments of the LORD, and his statutes, which I command you this day for your good? 14 Behold, the heaven and the heaven of heavens belongs to the LORD your God, and also the earth, with all that it contains. 15 Only the LORD had a delight in your fathers to love them, and he chose their posterity after them, even you above all people, as it is this day. 16 Therefore, circumcise the foreskin of your heart, and be stiff-necked no longer. 17 For the LORD your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, a great, a mighty, and an awesome God, who does not regard persons nor take reward. 18 He executes the judgment of the fatherless and widow, and he loves the stranger, giving him food and clothing. 19 Therefore, love the stranger, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. 20 You shall fear the LORD your God and you shall serve him. You shall cleave to him and swear by his name. 21 He is your praise and he is your God, who has done for you these great and awesome things which your eyes have seen. 22 Your fathers went down into Egypt with seventy persons, and now the LORD your God has made you as the stars of heaven for multitude."

[#deu011%breakable]
=== Chapter 11

[.outline.text-center]
_An exhortation to obedience, 1; by their own experience of God's great works, 2-7; by promise of God's great blessings, 8-15; and by threatenings, 16, 17. A careful diligence is required in God's words, 18-25. The blessing and curse set before them, 26-32._

1 "Therefore, you shall love the LORD your God and always keep his charge, his statutes, his judgments, and his commandments. 2 And know this day, for I do not speak with your children who have not known and who have not seen the chastisement of the LORD your God, his greatness, his mighty hand, and his out-stretched arm; 3 And his miracles and his acts, which he did in the midst of Egypt to Pharaoh the king of Egypt and to all his land; 4 And what he did to the army of Egypt, to their horses, and to their chariots, how he made the water of the Red Sea to overflow them as they pursued after you, and how the LORD has destroyed them to this day; 5 And what he did to you in the wilderness until you came to this place; 6 And what he did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben, how the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, along with their households, their tents, and all the substance that was in their possession, in the midst of all Israel. 7 But your eyes have seen all the great acts of the LORD which he did.

8 "Therefore, you shall keep all the commandments which I command you this day so that you may be strong and go in and possess the land where you go to possess it, 9 And that you may prolong your days in the land which the LORD swore to your fathers to give to them and to their posterity, a land that flows with milk and honey. 10 For the land that you are entering to possess is not like the land of Egypt, from where you came out, where you sowed your seed and watered it with your foot like a garden of herbs. 11 But the land that you are entering to possess is a land of hills and valleys, and drinks water from the rain of heaven, 12 A land which the LORD your God cares for. The eyes of the LORD your God are always upon it, from the beginning of the year even to the end of the year.

13 "And it shall come to pass, if you listen diligently to my commandments which I command you this day, to love the LORD your God and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul, 14 That I will give you the rain of your land in its due season, the former rain and the latter rain, so that you may gather in your grain, your wine, and your oil. 15 And I will give grass in your fields for your livestock so that you may eat and be full. 16 Take heed to yourselves, lest your heart be deceived and you turn aside and serve other gods and worship them; 17 And the LORD'S wrath be kindled against you, and he restrain the heavens so that there shall be no rain and the land shall not yield her fruit; and lest you perish quickly from off the good land which the LORD gives you.

18 "Therefore, you shall lay up these words of mine in your heart and in your soul. You shall bind them for a sign upon your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. 19 And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. 20 And you shall write them upon the door posts of your house and upon your gates 21 So that your days and the days of your children may be multiplied in the land which the LORD swore to your fathers to give to them, as the days of heaven upon the earth. 22 For if you diligently keep all these commandments which I command you, to do them, to love the LORD your God, to walk in all his ways, and to cleave to him, 23 Then the LORD will drive out all these nations from before you, and you shall possess greater and mightier nations than yourselves. 24 Every place on which the soles of your feet tread shall be yours. From the wilderness to Lebanon, and from the river, the Euphrates River, even to the uttermost sea shall be your limit. 25 No man shall be able to stand before you, for the LORD your God shall lay the fear of you and the dread of you upon all the land that you shall tread upon, as he has said to you.

26 "Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse: 27 A blessing, if you obey the commandments of the LORD your God which I command you this day, 28 And a curse, if you will not obey the commandments of the LORD your God, but turn aside from the way which I command you this day to go after other gods which you have not known.

29 "And it shall come to pass when the LORD your God has brought you in to the land where you go to possess it, that you shall put the blessing upon mount Gerizim and the curse upon mount Ebal. 30 Are they not on the other side of the Jordan, by the way where the sun goes down in the land of the Canaanites who dwell in the plain over against Gilgal beside the plains of Moreh? 31 For you shall pass over the Jordan to go in to possess the land which the LORD your God gives you, and you shall possess it and dwell in it. 32 And you shall observe to do all the statutes and judgments which I set before you this day."

[#deu012%breakable]
=== Chapter 12

[.outline.text-center]
_Monuments of idolatry are to be destroyed, 1-3. The place of God's service to be kept, 4-14. Blood is forbidden, 15, 16, 20-25. Holy things must be eaten in the holy place, 17, 18, 26-28. The Levite is not to be forsaken, 19. Idolatry is not to be inquired after, 29-32._

1 "These are the statutes and judgments which you shall observe to do in the land which the LORD God of your fathers gives you to possess it, all the days that you live upon the earth. 2 You shall utterly destroy all the places in which the nations which you shall possess served their gods: upon the high mountains, upon the hills, and under every green tree. 3 And you shall overthrow their altars, break their pillars, and burn their groves with fire. And you shall hew down the engraved images of their gods and destroy their names out of that place. 4 You shall not do so to the LORD your God. 5 But the place which the LORD your God chooses out of all your tribes to put his name there, even his habitation you shall seek, and there you shall come. 6 And there you shall bring your burnt-offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, heave-offerings of your hand, your vows, your voluntary-offerings, and the first-born of your herds and of your flocks. 7 And there you shall eat before the LORD your God, and you shall rejoice in all that you put your hand to—you and your households—in which the LORD your God has blessed you.

8 "You shall not do according to all the things that we do here this day, every man doing whatever is right in his own eyes. 9 For you have not yet come to the rest and to the inheritance which the LORD your God gives you. 10 But when you go over the Jordan and dwell in the land which the LORD your God gives you to inherit, and when he gives you rest from all your enemies on every side so that you dwell in safety, 11 There shall be a place which the LORD your God chooses to cause his name to dwell there. There you shall bring all that I command you: your burnt-offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, the heave-offering of your hand, and all your choice vows which you vow to the LORD. 12 And you shall rejoice before the LORD your God—you, your sons, your daughters, your men-servants, your women-servants, and the Levite who is within your gates, because he has no part nor inheritance with you.

13 "Take heed to yourself that you do not offer your burnt-offerings in every place that you see. 14 But in the place which the LORD chooses in one of your tribes, there you shall offer your burnt-offerings, and there you shall do all that I command you.

15 "However, you may kill and eat flesh in all your gates, whatever your soul desires, according to the blessing of the LORD your God which he has given you. The unclean and the clean may eat it, as they would the gazelle or the deer. 16 Only you shall not eat the blood. You shall pour it upon the earth as water. 17 You may not eat within your gates the tithe of your grain, of your wine, of your oil, or the first-born of your herds or of your flock, nor any of your vows which you vow, nor your voluntary-offerings, or heave-offering of your hand. 18 But you must eat them before the LORD your God in the place which the LORD your God chooses—you, your son, your daughter, your man-servant, your woman-servant, and the Levite who is within your gates. And you shall rejoice before the LORD your God in all that you put your hands to. 19 Take heed to yourself that you do not forsake the Levite as long as you live upon the earth.

20 "When the LORD your God enlarges your border, as he has promised you, and you say, 'I will eat flesh,' because your soul longs to eat flesh, you may eat flesh, whatever your soul desires. 21 If the place which the LORD your God has chosen to put his name there is too far from you, then you shall kill from your herd and from your flock which the LORD has given you, as I have commanded you, and you shall eat in your gates whatever your soul desires. 22 Even as the gazelle and the deer are eaten, so you shall eat them. The unclean and the clean shall eat them alike. 23 Only be sure that you do not eat the blood, for the blood is the life, and you may not eat the life with the flesh. 24 You shall not eat it. You shall pour it upon the earth as water. 25 You shall not eat it so that it may be well with you and with your children after you, because you will be doing that which is right in the sight of the LORD. 26 You shall take only your holy things which you have and your vows and go to the place which the LORD chooses, 27 And you shall offer your burnt-offerings, the flesh and the blood, upon the altar of the LORD your God. And the blood of your sacrifices shall be poured out upon the altar of the LORD your God, and you shall eat the flesh.

28 "Observe and hear all these words which I command you so that it may be well with you and with your children after you forever, because you will be doing that which is good and right in the sight of the LORD your God.

29 "When the LORD your God cuts off the nations from before you where you go to possess them, and you succeed them and dwell in their land, 30 Take heed to yourself that you are not snared by following them after they are destroyed from before you, and that you do not inquire after their gods, saying, 'How did these nations serve their gods? Even so I will do likewise.' 31 You shall not do so to the LORD your God, for every abomination to the LORD which he hates they have done to their gods. For even their sons and their daughters they have burnt in the fire to their gods.

32 "Whatever thing I command you, observe to do it. You shall not add to it nor diminish from it."

[#deu013%breakable]
=== Chapter 13

[.outline.text-center]
_Enticers to idolatry, 1-5; however near to you, 6-8; are to be stoned to death, 9-11. Idolatrous cities are not to be spared, 12-18._

1 "If a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder, 2 And the sign or the wonder comes to pass, of which he spoke to you, saying, 'Let us go after other gods which you have not known, and let us serve them,' 3 You shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams. For the LORD your God proves you, to know whether you love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul. 4 You shall walk after the LORD your God, fear him, keep his commandments, obey his voice, serve him, and cleave to him. [[deu013-005]]5 And that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put to death, because he has spoken to turn you away from the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you from the house of bondage, and to thrust you out of the way which the LORD your God commanded you to walk in. Thus you shall remove the evil from the midst of you.

6 "If your brother, the son of your mother, your son, your daughter, the wife of your bosom, or your friend who is as your own soul, entices you secretly, saying, 'Let us go and serve other gods,' which you have not known—you, nor your fathers— 7 Namely, of the gods of the people who are around you, near to you, or far off from you, from one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth, 8 You shall not consent to him, nor listen to him, neither shall your eye pity him, neither shall you spare, neither shall you conceal him. 9 But you shall surely kill him. Your hand shall be first upon him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people. 10 And you shall stone him with stones so that he dies, because he has sought to thrust you away from the LORD your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage. 11 And all Israel shall hear and fear, and they shall no longer do any such wickedness as this among you.

12 "If you hear it said in one of your cities which the LORD your God has given you to dwell there, 13 That some men, the children of Belial, have gone out from among you and have withdrawn the inhabitants of their city, saying, 'Let us go and serve other gods,' which you have not known, 14 Then you shall inquire and make search and ask diligently. And behold, if it is truth and the thing certain that such abomination is wrought among you, 15 You shall surely smite the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, utterly destroying it and all that is in it and its livestock with the edge of the sword. 16 And you shall gather all its plunder into the midst of its street, and shall completely burn the city and all its plunder with fire for the LORD your God. And it shall be a heap forever. It shall not be built again. 17 And nothing of the cursed thing shall cleave to your hand, so that the LORD will turn from the fierceness of his anger, show you mercy, have compassion upon you, and multiply you, as he has sworn to your fathers, 18 Because you listen to the voice of the LORD your God, keeping all his commandments which I command you this day, and doing that which is right in the eyes of the LORD your God."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.5]*: Reference, xref:#fco005-013[1st Corinthians 5:13].

[#deu014%breakable]
=== Chapter 14

[.outline.text-center]
_God's children are not to disfigure themselves in mourning, 1, 2. What may, and what may not be eaten, 3; of beasts, 4-8; of fish, 9, 10; of birds, 11-20. That which dies of itself may not be eaten, 21. Tithes of divine service, 22. Tithes and first-born to be eaten before the Lord, 23-27. The third year's tithe of alms and charity, 28, 29._

1 "You are the children of the LORD your God. You shall not cut yourselves, nor make any baldness between your eyes for the dead. 2 For you are a holy people to the LORD your God and the LORD has chosen you to be a peculiar people for himself above all the nations who are upon the earth.

3 "You shall not eat any abominable thing. 4 These are the beasts which you shall eat: the ox, the sheep, the goat, 5 The deer, the gazelle, the fallow-deer, the wild-goat, the ibex, the wild ox, and the chamois. 6 And every beast that parts the hoof and has the hoof split in two and chews the cud among the beasts, that you shall eat. 7 Nevertheless, these you shall not eat, of those that chew the cud or of those that divide the cloven hoof: the camel, the hare, and the coney. For they chew the cud, but do not divide the hoof; therefore, they are unclean to you. 8 And the swine, because it divides the hoof but does not chew the cud, is unclean to you. You shall not eat their flesh nor touch their dead carcass.

9 "These you shall eat of all that are in the waters: all that have fins and scales you shall eat. 10 And whatever does not have fins and scales you may not eat. It is unclean to you.

11 "All clean birds you may eat. 12 But these are those of which you shall not eat: the eagle, the vulture, the osprey, 13 The glede, the kite, the falcon after his kind, 14 Every raven after his kind, 15 The owl, the night-hawk, the gull, the hawk after his kind, 16 The little owl, the great owl, the swan, 17 The pelican, the vulture, the cormorant, 18 The stork, the heron after her kind, the lapwing, and the bat. 19 And every creeping animal that flies is unclean to you. They shall not be eaten. 20 But all clean birds you may eat.

21 "You shall not eat anything that dies of itself. You shall give it to the stranger who is in your gates so that he may eat it, or you may sell it to a foreigner, for you are a holy people to the LORD your God. You shall not boil a kid in his mother's milk.

22 "You shall truly tithe all the increase of your seed that the field brings forth year by year. 23 And you shall eat before the LORD your God, in the place which he chooses to place his name, the tithe of your grain, of your wine, of your oil, and the first-born of your herds and of your flocks, so that you may learn to fear the LORD your God always. 24 And if the way is too long for you so that you are not able to carry it, because the place which the LORD your God chooses to set his name is too far from you, when the LORD your God has blessed you, 25 Then you shall turn it into money, bind up the money in your hand, and go to the place which the LORD your God chooses. 26 And you shall bestow that money for whatever your soul desires, for oxen, for sheep, for wine, for strong drink, or for whatever your soul desires. And you shall eat there before the LORD your God, and you shall rejoice—you, and your household. 27 And the Levite who is within your gates, you shall not forsake him, for he has no part nor inheritance with you.

28 "At the end of three years you shall bring forth all the tithe of your increase the same year and shall lay it up within your gates. 29 Then the Levite (because he has no part nor inheritance with you), the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your gates shall come and shall eat and be satisfied so that the LORD your God may bless you in all the work of your hand which you do."

[#deu015%breakable]
=== Chapter 15

[.outline.text-center]
_The seventh year shall be a year of release for the poor, 1-6. Of lending to the poor, and the disposition in which it should be done, 7-11. A Hebrew servant, unless he does not want to depart, must in the seventh year be let go free and well furnished, 12-18. All first-born males of the livestock are to be sanctified to the Lord, 19-23._

1 "At the end of every seven years, you shall make a release. 2 And this is the manner of the release: every creditor who lends anything to his neighbor shall release it. He shall not exact it from his neighbor or from his brother, because it is called the LORD'S release. 3 From a foreigner you may exact it, but that which is yours with your brother, your hand shall release. 4 However, there shall be no poor among you, for the LORD shall greatly bless you in the land which the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance to possess it, 5 If only you carefully listen to the voice of the LORD your God to observe to do all these commandments which I command you this day. 6 For the LORD your God shall bless you, as he promised you, and you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow. And you shall reign over many nations, but they shall not reign over you.

7 "If there is among you a poor man, one of your brothers, within any of your gates in your land which the LORD your God gives you, you shall not harden your heart nor shut your hand from your poor brother. 8 But you shall open your hand wide to him and shall surely lend him sufficient for his need in that which he lacks. 9 Beware that there is not a thought in your wicked heart, saying, 'The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand,' and your eye is evil against your poor brother and you give him nothing. He will cry to the LORD against you, and it shall be sin to you. 10 You shall surely give to him, and your heart shall not be grieved when you give to him, because for this thing the LORD your God shall bless you in all your works and in all that you put your hand to. 11 For the poor shall never cease from the land. Therefore, I command you, saying, 'You shall open your hand wide to your brother, to your poor, and to your needy in your land.'

12 "And if your brother, a Hebrew man, or a Hebrew woman is sold to you and serves you six years, then in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you. 13 And when you send him out free from you, you shall not let him depart empty. 14 You shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, out of your floor, and out of your wine-press. From that with which the LORD your God has blessed you, you shall give to him. 15 And you shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God redeemed you. Therefore, I command you this thing this day. 16 And it shall be, if he says to you, 'I will not leave you,' because he loves you and your house, because he is well with you, 17 Then you shall take an awl and thrust it through his ear into the door, and he shall be your servant forever. And also to your woman-servant you shall do likewise.

18 "It shall not seem hard to you when you send him away free from you, for he has been of double the worth of a hired servant to you in serving you six years. And the LORD your God shall bless you in all that you do.

19 "All the first-born males that come from your herd and from your flock you shall sanctify to the LORD your God. You shall do no work with the first-born of your bull, nor shear the first-born of your sheep. 20 You shall eat it before the LORD your God year by year in the place which the LORD chooses—you and your household. 21 And if there is any blemish in it, as if it is lame, blind, or has any ill blemish, you shall not sacrifice it to the LORD your God. 22 You shall eat it within your gates. The unclean and the clean person shall eat it alike, as they would the gazelle or the deer. 23 Only you shall not eat its blood. You shall pour it upon the ground as water."

[#deu016%breakable]
=== Chapter 16

[.outline.text-center]
_The feast of the passover, 1-8, of weeks, 9-12, of tabernacles, 13-15. Every male must offer, as he is able, at these three feasts, 16, 17. Of judges and justice, 18-20. Groves and images are forbidden, 21, 22._

1 "Observe the month Abib, and keep the passover to the LORD your God. For in the month of Abib the LORD your God brought you forth from Egypt by night. 2 You shall therefore sacrifice the passover to the LORD your God from the flock and the herd in the place which the LORD chooses to place his name there. 3 You shall eat no leavened bread with it. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread with it, even the bread of affliction, for you came forth from the land of Egypt in haste, so that you may remember the day when you came forth from the land of Egypt all the days of your life. 4 And there shall be no leavened bread seen with you in all your borders for seven days, neither shall there anything of the flesh, which you sacrificed the first day at evening, remain all night until the morning. 5 You may not sacrifice the passover within any of your gates which the LORD your God gives you. 6 But at the place which the LORD your God chooses to place his name in, there you shall sacrifice the passover at evening, at the setting of the sun, at the time of your departure from Egypt. 7 And you shall roast and eat it in the place which the LORD your God chooses. And you shall turn in the morning and go to your tents. 8 Six days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day shall be a solemn assembly to the LORD your God. In it you shall do no work.

9 "Seven weeks you shall number to you. Begin to number the seven weeks from the time when you begin to put the sickle to the grain. 10 And you shall keep the feast of weeks to the LORD your God with a tribute of a voluntary-offering of your hand, which you shall give to the LORD your God, according as the LORD your God has blessed you. 11 And you shall rejoice before the LORD your God—you, your son, your daughter, your man-servant, your woman-servant, the Levite who is within your gates, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow who are among you—in the place which the LORD your God has chosen to place his name there. 12 And you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt. And you shall observe and do these statutes.

13 "You shall observe the feast of tabernacles seven days after you have gathered in your grain and your wine. 14 And you shall rejoice in your feast—you, your son, your daughter, your man-servant, your woman-servant, the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your gates. 15 Seven days you shall keep a solemn feast to the LORD your God in the place which the LORD chooses, because the LORD your God shall bless you in all your increase and in all the works of your hands; therefore, you shall surely rejoice.

16 "Three times in a year all your males shall appear before the LORD your God in the place which he chooses: in the feast of unleavened bread, in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles. And they shall not appear before the LORD empty. 17 Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the LORD your God which he has given you.

18 "You shall make judges and officers for yourself throughout your tribes in all your gates which the LORD your God gives you. And they shall judge the people with just judgment. 19 You shall not wrest judgment. You shall not respect persons, neither take a gift, for a gift blinds the eyes of the wise and perverts the words of the righteous. 20 You shall follow that which is altogether just so that you may live and inherit the land which the LORD your God gives you.

[[deu016-021]]21 "You shall not plant for yourself a grove of any trees near the altar of the LORD your God, which you shall make for yourself, 22 Neither shall you set yourself up any image, which the LORD your God hates."

[#deu017%breakable]
=== Chapter 17

[.outline.text-center]
_The things sacrificed must be sound, 1. Idolaters must be slain, 2-7. Hard controversies are to be determined by the priests and judges, 8-11. The despiser of that determination must die, 12, 13. The election, 14, 15; and duty of a king, 16-20._

1 "You shall not sacrifice to the LORD your God any bull or sheep on which there is a blemish or any defect, for that is an abomination to the LORD your God.

2 "If there is found among you, within any of your gates which the LORD your God gives you, a man or woman who has wrought wickedness in the sight of the LORD your God, in transgressing his covenant, 3 And has gone and served other gods and worshiped them, either the sun, moon, or any of the host of heaven, which I have not commanded, 4 And it is told to you, and you have heard of it and inquired diligently, and behold, it is true and the thing certain, that such abomination is wrought in Israel, 5 Then you shall bring forth to your gates that man or that woman who has committed that wicked thing, even that man or that woman, and shall stone them with stones until they die. 6 At the mouth of two witnesses or three witnesses, he who is worthy of death shall be put to death, but at the mouth of one witness he shall not be put to death. [[deu017-007]]7 The hands of the witnesses shall be first upon him to put him to death, and afterward, the hands of all the people. Thus you shall remove the evil from among you.

8 "If there arises a matter too hard for you in judgment between blood and blood, between plea and plea, and between stroke and stroke, being matters of controversy within your gates, then you shall arise and go up to the place which the LORD your God chooses. 9 And you shall come to the priests who are Levites and to the judge who shall be in those days. And you shall inquire, and they shall show you the sentence of judgment. 10 And you shall do according to the sentence, which those of that place which the LORD chooses shall show you. And you shall observe to do according to all that they inform you. 11 According to the sentence of the law which they teach you, and according to the judgment which they tell you, you shall do. You shall not decline from the sentence which they show you to the right hand nor to the left. 12 And the man who will do presumptuously and will not listen to the priest who stands to minister there before the LORD your God, or to the judge, even that man shall die. And you shall remove the evil from Israel. 13 And all the people shall hear and fear and no longer act presumptuously.

14 "When you come into the land which the LORD your God gives you and possess it and dwell in it, and say, 'I will set a king over me like all the nations who are around me,' 15 You shall surely set him king over you whom the LORD your God chooses. One from among your brothers you shall set king over you. You may not set a stranger over you who is not your brother. 16 But he shall not multiply horses for himself nor cause the people to return to Egypt, to the end that he should multiply horses, because the LORD has said to you, 'You shall not return that way anymore.' 17 He shall not multiply wives for himself so that his heart may not turn away, neither shall he greatly accumulate for himself silver and gold.

18 "And it shall be when he sits upon the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write himself a copy of this law in a book out of that which is before the priests the Levites. 19 And it shall be with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life so that he may learn to fear the LORD his God, to keep all the words of this law and these statutes, and to do them. 20 Then his heart will not be lifted above his brothers, and he will not turn aside from the commandment, to the right hand or to the left, to the end that he may prolong his days in his kingdom—he and his children—in the midst of Israel."

References::
*[v.7]*: Quoted in xref:#fco005-013[1st Corinthians 5:13].

[#deu018%breakable]
=== Chapter 18

[.outline.text-center]
_The LORD is the priests' and Levites' inheritance, 1, 2. The priests' due, 3-5. The Levites' portion, 6-8. The abominations of the nations are to be avoided, 9-14. Christ the Prophet is to be heard, 15-19. The presumptuous prophet is to die, 20-22._

1 "The priests the Levites, even all the tribe of Levi, shall have no part nor inheritance with Israel. They shall eat the offerings of the LORD made by fire and his inheritance. 2 Therefore, they shall have no inheritance among their brothers. The LORD is their inheritance, as he has said to them.

3 "And this shall be the priest's due from the people, from those who offer a sacrifice, whether ox or sheep, and they shall give to the priest the shoulder, the two cheeks, and the stomach. 4 Also the first-fruit of your grain, of your wine, and of your oil, and the first of the fleece of your sheep, you shall give him. 5 For the LORD your God has chosen him out of all your tribes to stand to minister in the name of the LORD—him and his sons forever.

6 "And if a Levite comes from any of your gates out of all Israel where he dwells, and comes with all the desire of his mind to the place which the LORD chooses, 7 Then he shall minister in the name of the LORD his God, as all his brothers the Levites do who stand there before the LORD. 8 They shall have like portions to eat, besides that which comes of the sale of his patrimony.

9 "When you come into the land which the LORD your God gives you, you shall not learn to do after the abominations of those nations. 10 There shall not be found among you anyone who makes his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, who uses divination, an observer of times, an enchanter, a witch, 11 A charmer, a consulter with familiar spirits, a wizard, or a necromancer. 12 For all who do these things are an abomination to the LORD. And because of these abominations the LORD your God drives them out from before you. 13 You shall be perfect with the LORD your God. 14 For these nations, which you shall possess, listened to observers of times and to diviners. But as for you, the LORD your God has not allowed you to do so.

[[deu018-015]]15 "The LORD your God will raise up for you a Prophet like me from the midst of you, out of your brothers. To him you shall listen. 16 This is according to all that you desired of the LORD your God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, 'Do not let me hear again the voice of the LORD my God, neither let me see this great fire anymore, so that I may not die.' 17 And the LORD said to me, 'They have well spoken of that which they have spoken. 18 I will raise up to them a prophet like you from among their brothers and will put my words in his mouth. And he shall speak to them all that I shall command him. [[deu018-019]]19 And it shall come to pass, that whoever will not listen to my words which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him. 20 But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in my name which I have not commanded him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other gods, even that prophet shall die.' 21 And if you say in your heart, 'How shall we know the word which the LORD has not spoken?' 22 When a prophet speaks in the name of the LORD, if the thing does not follow nor come to pass, that is the thing which the LORD has not spoken, but the prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You shall not be afraid of him."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.15]*: Quoted in xref:#act003-022[Acts 3:22], xref:#act007-037[7:37]. *[v.19]*: Quoted in xref:#act003-023[Acts 3:23].

[#deu019%breakable]
=== Chapter 19

[.outline.text-center]
_The cities of refuge, 1-3. The privilege thereof for the slayer, 4-13. The land-mark is not to be removed, 14. Two witnesses at the least are required, 15. The punishment of a false witness, 16-21._

1 "When the LORD your God has cut off the nations, whose land the LORD your God gives you, and you succeed them and dwell in their cities and in their houses, 2 You shall separate three cities for yourself in the midst of your land which the LORD your God gives you to possess it. 3 You shall prepare yourself a way and divide into three parts the limits of your land which the LORD your God gives you to inherit so that every slayer may flee there.

4 "And this is the case of the slayer who flees there so that he may live. Whoever kills his neighbor ignorantly, whom he did not hate in time past, 5 As when a man goes into the forest with his neighbor to hew wood, and his hand makes a stroke with the ax to cut down the tree, and the head slips from the helve and falls upon his neighbor so that he dies, he shall flee to one of these cities and live, 6 Lest the avenger of blood pursue the slayer while his heart is hot and overtake him, because the way is long, and slay him, whereas he was not worthy of death, since he did not hate him in time past. 7 Therefore, I command you, saying, 'You shall separate three cities for yourself.'

8 "And if the LORD your God enlarges your limits, as he has sworn to your fathers, and gives you all the land which he promised to give to your fathers, 9 If you keep all these commandments to do them, which I command you this day, to love the LORD your God and to walk ever in his ways, then you shall add three cities more for yourself, besides these three, 10 So that innocent blood may not be shed in your land, which the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance, and thus blood be upon you.

11 "But if any man hates his neighbor and lies in wait for him, rises up against him, and smites him mortally so that he dies, and he flees into one of these cities, 12 Then the elders of his city shall send and bring him from there and deliver him into the hand of the avenger of blood, so that he may die. 13 Your eye shall not pity him, but you shall remove the guilt of innocent blood from Israel, so that it may be well with you.

14 "You shall not remove your neighbor's landmark, which they of old time have set in your inheritance, which you shall inherit in the land that the LORD your God gives you to possess it.

[[deu019-015]]15 "One witness shall not rise up against a man for any iniquity or for any sin, in any sin that he sins. At the mouth of two witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, the matter shall be established. 16 If a false witness rises up against any man to testify against him that which is wrong, 17 Then both the men between whom the controversy is shall stand before the LORD, before the priests and the judges who shall be in those days. 18 And the judges shall make diligent inquisition, and behold, if the witness is a false witness and has testified falsely against his brother, 19 Then you shall do to him as he had thought to do to his brother. Thus you shall remove the evil from among you. 20 And those who remain shall hear and fear, and shall no more from now on commit any such evil among you. [[deu019-021]]21 And your eye shall not pity. But life shall go for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.15]*: Quoted in xref:#mth018-016[Matthew 18:16]; xref:#sco013-001[2nd Corinthians 13:1]. *[v.21]*: Reference, xref:#mth005-038[Matthew 5:38].

[#deu020%breakable]
=== Chapter 20

[.outline.text-center]
_The priest's exhortation to encourage the people to battle, 1-4. The officers' proclamation of who are to be dismissed from the war, 5-9. How to use the cities that accept or refuse the proclamation of peace, 10-15. What cities must be devoted, 16-18. Trees that are food for man must not be destroyed in the siege, 19, 20._

1 "When you go out to battle against your enemies and see horses, chariots, and a people more than you, do not be afraid of them, for the LORD your God is with you, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. 2 And it shall be when you come near the battle, that the priest shall approach and speak to the people, 3 And shall say to them, 'Hear, O Israel, you approach this day to battle against your enemies. Do not let your hearts faint, do not fear, and do not tremble, neither be terrified because of them, 4 For the LORD your God is he who goes with you to fight for you against your enemies to save you.' 5 And the officers shall speak to the people, saying, 'What man is there who has built a new house and has not dedicated it? Let him go and return to his house, lest he should die in the battle and another man should dedicate it. 6 And what man is he who has planted a vineyard and has not yet eaten of it? Let him also go and return to his house, lest he should die in the battle and another man should eat of it. 7 And what man is there who has betrothed a wife and has not taken her? Let him go and return to his house, lest he should die in battle and another man should take her.' 8 And the officers shall speak further to the people, and they shall say, 'What man is there who is fearful and faint-hearted? Let him go and return to his house, lest his brothers' hearts should faint as well as his heart.' 9 And it shall be, when the officers have made an end of speaking to the people, that they shall make captains of the armies to lead the people.

10 "When you come near to a city to fight against it, proclaim peace to it. 11 And it shall be, if it makes you an answer of peace and opens to you, then it shall be, that all the people who are found therein shall be tributaries to you and they shall serve you. 12 And if it will make no peace with you, but will make war against you, then you shall besiege it. 13 And when the LORD your God has delivered it into your hands, you shall smite every male of it with the edge of the sword, 14 But the women, the little ones, the livestock, and all that is in the city, even all its plunder, you shall take for yourself. And you shall eat the plunder of your enemies which the LORD your God has given you. 15 Thus you shall do to all the cities which are very distant from you, which are not of the cities of these nations. 16 But of the cities of these people which the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance, you shall save alive nothing that breathes, 17 But you shall utterly destroy them, namely, the Hittites, the Amorites, Canaanites, the Perizzites, Hivites, and the Jebusites, as the LORD your God has commanded you, 18 So that they may not teach you to do after all their abominations which they have done to their gods, and you sin against the LORD your God.

19 "When you besiege a city a long time, in making war against it to take it, you shall not destroy its trees by forcing an ax against them. You may eat from them, but you shall not cut them down (for the tree of the field is man's life) to employ them in the siege. 20 Only the trees which you know that are not trees for food you shall destroy and cut down. And you shall build bulwarks against the city that makes war with you until it is subdued."

[#deu021%breakable]
=== Chapter 21

[.outline.text-center]
_The expiation of an uncertain murder, 1-9. The usage of a captive taken for a wife, 10-14. The first-born is not to be disinherited upon private affection, 15-17. A rebellious son is to be stoned to death, 18-21. The malefactor must not hang all night on a tree, 22, 23._

1 "If someone is found slain, lying in the field in the land which the LORD your God gives you to possess, and it is unknown who has slain him, 2 Then your elders and your judges shall come forth, and they shall measure to the cities which are around him who is slain. 3 And it shall be that the city which is next to the slain man, even the elders of that city shall take a heifer which has not been worked and which has not drawn in the yoke, 4 And the elders of that city shall bring the heifer down to a rough valley, which is neither tilled nor sown, and shall strike off the heifer's neck there in the valley. 5 And the priests the sons of Levi shall come near (for the LORD your God has chosen them to minister to him and to bless in the name of the LORD) and by their word every controversy and every stroke shall be tried. 6 And all the elders of that city who are next to the slain man shall wash their hands over the heifer that is beheaded in the valley. 7 And they shall answer and say, 'Our hands have not shed this blood, neither have our eyes seen it. 8 Be merciful, O LORD, to your people Israel, whom you have redeemed, and do not lay innocent blood to the charge of your people Israel.' And the blood shall be forgiven. 9 Thus you shall remove the guilt of innocent blood from among you, when you do that which is right in the sight of the LORD.

10 "When you go forth to war against your enemies, and the LORD your God has delivered them into your hands and you have taken them captive, 11 And you see among the captives a beautiful woman and have a desire for her, that you would have her for your wife, 12 Then you shall bring her home to your house, and she shall shave her head and pare her nails. 13 And she shall take off from her the clothing of her captivity and shall remain in your house and bewail her father and her mother a full month. And after that, you shall go in to her and be her husband, and she shall be your wife. 14 And it shall be, if you have no delight in her, then you shall let her go where she wishes. But you shall not sell her at all for money and you shall not make merchandise of her, because you have humbled her.

15 "If a man has two wives, one beloved and another hated, and they have borne him children, both the beloved and the hated, and if the first-born son is hers who was hated, 16 Then it shall be, when he makes his sons inherit that which he has, that he may not prefer the son of the beloved first-born before the son of the hated, which is indeed the first-born, 17 But he shall acknowledge the son of the hated for the first-born by giving him a double portion of all that he has, for he is the beginning of his strength. The right of the first-born is his.

18 "If a man has a stubborn and rebellious son who will not obey the voice of his father or the voice of his mother, and who, when they have chastened him, will not listen to them, 19 Then his father and his mother shall lay hold upon him and bring him out to the elders of his city and to the gate of his place. 20 And they shall say to the elders of his city, 'This son of ours is stubborn and rebellious. He will not obey our voice. He is a glutton and a drunkard.' 21 And all the men of his city shall stone him with stones so that he may die. Thus you shall remove evil from among you, and all Israel shall hear and fear.

22 "And if a man has committed a sin worthy of death and he must be put to death, and you hang him on a tree, [[deu021-023]]23 His body shall not remain all night upon the tree, but you shall surely bury him that day (for he who is hanged is accursed of God). You shall not defile your land that the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.23]*: Quoted in xref:#gal003-013[Galatians 3:13].

[#deu022%breakable]
=== Chapter 22

[.outline.text-center]
_Of humanity toward brothers, 1-4. Gender is to be distinguished by apparel, 5. The hen is not to be taken with her young ones, 6, 7. The house must have parapets, 8. Confusion is to be avoided, 9-11. Fringes upon the vesture, 12. The punishment of him who slanders his wife, 13-21. Of adultery, 22; of rape, 23-27; of fornication, 28, 29; of incest, 30._

1 "You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep go astray and hide yourself from them. You shall in any case bring them back to your brother. 2 And if your brother is not near you or if you do not know him, then you shall bring it to your own house, and it shall be with you until your brother seeks after it. Then you shall restore it to him again. 3 Thus you shall do with his donkey and likewise with his clothing, and you shall do the same with all lost things of your brother's which he has lost and you have found. You may not hide yourself. 4 You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fall down by the way and hide yourself from them. You shall surely help him to lift them up again.

5 "A woman shall not wear that which pertains to a man, neither shall a man put on a woman's garment, for all who do so are an abomination to the LORD your God.

6 "If a bird's nest happens to be before you in the way on any tree or on the ground, whether with young ones or eggs, and the mother sitting upon the young or upon the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young. 7 But you shall surely let the mother go and take the young to you, so that it may be well with you and that you may prolong your days.

8 "When you build a new house, you shall make a parapet for your roof so that you may not bring blood upon your house if any man falls from there.

9 "You shall not sow your vineyard with diverse seeds, lest the fruit of your seed which you have sown and the fruit of your vineyard should be defiled.

10 "You shall not plow with an ox and a donkey together.

11 "You shall not wear a mixed garment [woven] of wool and linen together.

12 "You shall make yourself fringes upon the four quarters of your vesture with which you cover yourself.

13 "If any man takes a wife, goes in to her, and then hates her, 14 And gives occasions of speech against her and brings an evil name upon her, and says, 'I took this woman, and when I came to her, I did not find her a virgin,' 15 Then the father and the mother of the young woman shall take and bring forth the tokens of the young woman's virginity to the elders of the city in the gate. 16 And the young woman's father shall say to the elders, 'I gave my daughter to this man for a wife, and he hates her, 17 And behold, he has given occasions of speech against her, saying, "I did not find your daughter a virgin." And yet these are the tokens of my daughter's virginity.' And they shall spread the cloth before the elders of the city. 18 And the elders of that city shall take that man and chastise him. 19 And they shall amerce him one hundred shekels of silver, and give them to the father of the young woman, because he has brought an evil name upon a virgin of Israel. And she shall be his wife. He may not put her away all his days.

20 "But if this thing is true, and the tokens of virginity are not found for the young woman, 21 Then they shall bring out the young woman to the door of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her with stones so that she may die, because she has wrought folly in Israel by being guilty of lewdness in her father's house. Thus you shall remove evil from among you.

22 "If a man is found lying with a woman married to a husband, then they shall die, both the man who lay with the woman and the woman. Thus you shall remove evil from Israel.

23 "If a young woman who is a virgin is betrothed to a husband, and a man finds her in the city and lies with her, 24 Then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city and stone them with stones so that they may die—the young woman because she did not cry, though she was in the city, and the man because he has humbled his neighbor's wife. Thus you shall remove evil from among you.

25 "But if a man finds a betrothed young woman in the field, and the man forces her and lies with her, then the man only who lay with her shall die. 26 But to the young woman you shall do nothing. There is in the young woman no sin worthy of death. For as when a man rises against his neighbor and slays him, even so is this matter. 27 For he found her in the field, and the betrothed young woman cried, and there was no one to save her.

28 "If a man finds a young woman who is a virgin, who is not betrothed, and lays hold upon her and lies with her, and they are found, 29 Then the man who lay with her shall give to the young woman's father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife. Because he has humbled her, he may not put her away all his days.

30 "A man shall not take his father's wife, nor discover his father's skirt."

[#deu023%breakable]
=== Chapter 23

[.outline.text-center]
_Who may or may not enter into the congregation, 1-8. Uncleanness to be avoided in the host, 9-14. Of the fugitive servant, 15, 16. Of filthiness, 17. Of abominable sacrifices, 18. Of lending upon interest, 19. Of vows, 21-23. Of trespasses, 24, 25._

1 "He who is wounded or mutilated in his secrets shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD. 2 An illegitimate son shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD. Even to his tenth generation he shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD. 3 An Ammonite or Moabite shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD. Even to their tenth generation they shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD forever, 4 Because they did not meet you with bread and with water in the way when you came forth from Egypt, and because they hired against you Balaam the son of Beor from Pethor of Mesopotamia to curse you. 5 Nevertheless, the LORD your God would not listen to Balaam, but the LORD your God turned the curse into a blessing for you, because the LORD your God loved you. 6 You shall not seek their peace, nor their prosperity all your days forever.

7 "You shall not abhor an Edomite, for he is your brother. You shall not abhor an Egyptian, because you were a stranger in his land. 8 The children who are begotten by them shall enter into the congregation of the LORD in their third generation.

9 "When the host goes forth against your enemies, keep yourself from every wicked thing.

10 "If there is among you any man who is not clean by reason of uncleanness that happens to him by night, then he shall go abroad out of the camp. He shall not come within the camp. 11 But it shall be, when evening comes near, he shall wash himself with water, and when the sun is down, he shall come into the camp again.

12 "You shall have a place also outside the camp where you shall go forth abroad. 13 And you shall have a paddle upon your weapon, and it shall be when you relieve yourself abroad, that you shall dig with it and turn back and cover that which comes from you. 14 For the LORD your God walks in the midst of your camp to deliver you and to give up your enemies before you; therefore, your camp shall be holy, so that he may see no unclean thing in you and turn away from you.

15 "You shall not deliver to his master the servant who has escaped from his master to you. 16 He shall dwell with you, even among you in that place which he chooses in one of your gates where it pleases him best. You shall not oppress him.

17 "There shall be no harlot among the daughters of Israel, nor a temple prostitute among the sons of Israel. 18 You shall not bring the wages of a harlot or the price of a dog into the house of the LORD your God for any vow, for even both of these are an abomination to the LORD your God.

19 "You shall not lend upon interest to your brother: interest of money, interest of food, or interest of anything that is lent upon interest. 20 To a stranger you may lend upon interest, but to your brother you shall not lend upon interest so that the LORD your God may bless you in all that you set your hand to in the land where you go to possess it.

[[deu023-021]]21 "When you vow a vow to the LORD your God, you shall not defer to pay it, for the LORD your God will surely require it of you, and it would be sin in you. 22 But if you forbear to vow, it shall not be sin in you. [[deu023-023]]23 That which is uttered by your lips you shall keep and perform, even a voluntary-offering, according as you have vowed to the LORD your God, which you have promised with your mouth.

24 "When you come into your neighbor's vineyard, you may satisfy your appetite with grapes at your own pleasure, but you shall not put any in your vessel.

25 "When you come into the standing grain of your neighbor, you may pluck the heads with your hand, but you shall not move a sickle to your neighbor's standing grain."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.21]*: Reference, xref:#mth005-033[Matthew 5:33]. *[v.23]*: Reference, xref:#mth005-033[Matthew 5:33].

[#deu024%breakable]
=== Chapter 24

[.outline.text-center]
_Of divorce, 1-4. A newly married man does not go to war, 5. Of pledges, 6, 10-13. Of those who steal men, 7. Of leprosy, 8, 9. The hire is to be given, 14, 15. Of justice, 16. Of charity, 19-22._

[[deu024-001]]1 "When a man has taken a wife and married her, and it comes to pass that she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some uncleanness in her, let him write her a bill of divorcement, give it in her hand, and send her out of his house. 2 And when she has departed from his house, she may go and be another man's wife. 3 And if the latter husband hates her and writes her a bill of divorcement, gives it in her hand, and sends her out of his house, or if the latter husband dies, who took her to be his wife, 4 Her former husband who sent her away may not take her again to be his wife, since she is defiled, for that is abomination before the LORD. And you shall not cause the land to sin, which the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance.

5 "When a man has newly taken a wife, he shall not go out to war, neither shall he be charged with any business, but he shall be free at home one year and shall cheer his wife which he has taken.

6 "No man shall take the nether or the upper millstone for a pledge, for he takes a man's life for a pledge.

7 "If a man is found stealing any of his brothers of the children of Israel and makes merchandise of him or sells him, then that thief shall die, and you shall remove evil from among you.

8 "Take heed in the plague of leprosy that you observe diligently and do according to all that the priests the Levites teach you. As I commanded them, so you shall observe to do. 9 Remember what the LORD your God did to Miriam by the way after you came forth from Egypt.

10 "When you lend your brother anything, you shall not go into his house to take his pledge. 11 You shall stand abroad, and the man to whom you lend shall bring out the pledge abroad to you. 12 And if the man is poor, you shall not sleep with his pledge. 13 In any case, you shall return the pledge to him when the sun goes down, so that he may sleep in his own clothing and bless you. And it shall be righteousness for you before the LORD your God.

14 "You shall not oppress a hired servant who is poor and needy, whether he is one of your brothers or one of your strangers who are in your land within your gates. 15 At his day you shall give him his hire, neither shall the sun go down upon it, for he is poor and sets his heart upon it, lest he should cry against you to the LORD and it be sin to you.

16 "The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers. Every man shall be put to death for his own sin.

17 "You shall not pervert the judgment of the stranger, nor of the fatherless, nor take a widow's clothing for a pledge. 18 But you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and the LORD your God redeemed you from there. Therefore, I command you to do this thing.

19 "When you cut down your harvest in your field and forget a sheaf in the field, you shall not go back to fetch it. It shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow, so that the LORD your God may bless you in all the work of your hands. 20 When you beat your olive-tree, you shall not go over the boughs again. It shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow.

21 "When you gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not glean it afterward. It shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow. 22 And you shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt. Therefore, I command you to do this thing."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.1]*: Quoted in xref:#mth005-031[Matthew 5:31]; xref:#mrk010-004[Mark 10:4].

[#deu025%breakable]
=== Chapter 25

[.outline.text-center]
_Stripes must not exceed forty, 1-3. The ox is not to be muzzled, 4. Of raising children for a brother, 5-10. Of the immodest woman, 11, 12. Of unjust weights and measures, 13-16. The memory of Amalek is to be blotted out, 17-19._

1 "If there is a controversy between men and they come to judgment so that the judges may judge them, then they shall justify the righteous and condemn the wicked. 2 And it shall be, if the wicked man is worthy to be beaten, that the judge shall cause him to lie down and to be beaten before his face, according to his fault, by a certain number. 3 Forty stripes he may give him, but no more. Otherwise, if he should continue and beat him with many more stripes than these, then your brother would be dishonored in your eyes.

[[deu025-004]]4 "You shall not muzzle the ox when he treads out the grain.

[[deu025-005]]5 "If brothers dwell together, and one of them dies and has no child, the wife of the dead shall not marry outside to a stranger. Her husband's brother shall go in to her and take her for himself for a wife and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her. 6 And it shall be, that the first-born which she bears shall succeed in the name of his brother who is dead, so that his name may not become extinct in Israel. 7 And if the man does not want to take his brother's wife, then let his brother's wife go up to the gate to the elders, and say, 'My husband's brother refuses to raise up for his brother a name in Israel. He will not perform the duty of my husband's brother.' 8 Then the elders of his city shall call him and speak to him. And if he stands to it, and says, 'I do not want to take her,' 9 Then his brother's wife shall come to him in the presence of the elders, take his shoe off his foot, and spit in his face, and shall answer and say, 'So it shall be done to that man who will not build up his brother's house.' 10 And his name shall be called in Israel, 'The house of him who has his shoe removed.'

11 "When men strive together with one another, and the wife of one draws near to deliver her husband from the hand of him who smites him and puts forth her hand and takes him by the secrets, 12 Then you shall cut off her hand. Your eye shall not pity her.

13 "You shall not have in your bag diverse weights, a great and a small. 14 You shall not have in your house diverse measures, a great and a small. 15 But you shall have a perfect and just weight, and you shall have a perfect and just measure, so that your days may be lengthened in the land which the LORD your God gives you. 16 For all who do such things, and all who do unrighteously, are an abomination to the LORD your God.

17 "Remember what Amalek did to you by the way when you had come forth from Egypt, 18 How he met you by the way and smote the hindmost of you, even all who were feeble behind you, when you were faint and weary. And he did not fear God. 19 Therefore, it shall be, when the LORD your God has given you rest from all your enemies on all sides in the land which the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance to possess it, that you shall blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. You shall not forget it."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.4]*: Quoted in xref:#fco009-009[1st Corinthians 9:9]; xref:#fti005-018[1st Timothy 5:18]. *[v.5]*: Quoted in xref:#mth022-024[Matthew 22:24]; xref:#mrk012-019[Mark 12:19]; xref:#luk020-028[Luke 20:28].

[#deu026%breakable]
=== Chapter 26

[.outline.text-center]
_The confession of him who offers the basket of first-fruits, 1-11. The prayer of him who gives his third year's tithes, 12-15. The covenant between God and his people, 16-19._

1 "And it shall be, when you come in to the land which the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance and possess it and dwell therein, 2 That you shall take some of the first of all the fruit of the earth, which you bring from your land that the LORD your God gives you, and shall put it in a basket, and shall go to the place which the LORD your God chooses to place his name there. 3 And you shall go to the priest who shall be in those days, and say to him, 'I profess this day to the LORD your God, that I have come to the country which the LORD swore to our fathers to give us.' 4 And the priest shall take the basket from your hand and set it down before the altar of the LORD your God. 5 And you shall speak and say before the LORD your God, 'My father was a Syrian ready to perish, and he went down to Egypt and sojourned there with a few and became a great, mighty, and populous nation there. 6 And the Egyptians ill-treated us and afflicted us and laid upon us hard bondage. 7 And when we cried to the LORD God of our fathers, the LORD heard our voice and looked on our affliction, our labor, and our oppression. 8 And the LORD brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand, with an out-stretched arm, with great terribleness, with signs, and with wonders, 9 And he has brought us into this place and has given us this land, even a land that flows with milk and honey. 10 And now, behold, I have brought the first-fruits of the land, which you, O LORD, have given me.' And you shall set it before the LORD your God and worship before the LORD your God. 11 And you shall rejoice in every good thing which the LORD your God has given to you and to your house—you, the Levite, and the stranger who is among you.

12 "When you have made an end of tithing all the tithes of your increase the third year, which is the year of tithing, and have given it to the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, so that they may eat within your gates and be filled, 13 You shall say before the LORD your God, 'I have brought away the hallowed things out of my house, and also have given them to the Levite, to the stranger, to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all your commandments which you have commanded me. I have not transgressed your commandments, neither have I forgotten them. 14 I have not eaten any of it in my mourning, neither have I taken away anything of it for any unclean use, nor given anything of it for the dead. But I have listened to the voice of the LORD my God and have done according to all that you have commanded me. 15 Look down from your holy habitation, from heaven, and bless your people Israel and the land which you have given us, as you swore to our fathers, a land that flows with milk and honey.'

16 "This day the LORD your God has commanded you to perform these statutes and judgments. You shall therefore keep and do them with all your heart and with all your soul. 17 You have avouched the LORD this day to be your God, and to walk in his ways, and to keep his statutes, his commandments, and his judgments, and to listen to his voice. 18 And the LORD has avouched you this day to be his peculiar people, as he has promised you, and that you should keep all his commandments; 19 And to make you high above all nations which he has made, in praise, in name, and in honor; and that you may be a holy people to the LORD your God, as he has spoken."

[#deu027%breakable]
=== Chapter 27

[.outline.text-center]
_The people are commanded to write the law upon stones, 1-4, and to build an altar of whole stones, 5-10. The tribes to be divided on Gerizim and Ebal, 11-13. The curses to be pronounced on mount Ebal, 14-26._

1 And Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, "Keep all the commandments which I command you this day. 2 And it shall be on the day when you pass over the Jordan to the land which the LORD your God gives you, that you shall set yourself up great stones and plaster them with plaster. 3 And you shall write upon them all the words of this law when you have passed over so that you may enter in to the land which the LORD your God gives you, a land that flows with milk and honey, as the LORD God of your fathers has promised you. 4 Therefore, it shall be, when you have gone over the Jordan, that you shall set up these stones which I command you this day on mount Ebal, and you shall plaster them with plaster. 5 And there you shall build an altar to the LORD your God, an altar of stones. You shall not lift up any iron tool upon them. 6 You shall build the altar of the LORD your God of whole stones. And you shall offer on it burnt-offerings to the LORD your God. 7 And you shall offer peace-offerings, and shall eat there and rejoice before the LORD your God. 8 And you shall write upon the stones all the words of this law very plainly."

9 And Moses and the priests the Levites spoke to all Israel, saying, "Take heed and listen, O Israel. This day you have become the people of the LORD your God. 10 You shall therefore obey the voice of the LORD your God and do his commandments and his statutes which I command you this day."

11 And Moses charged the people the same day, saying, 12 "These shall stand upon mount Gerizim to bless the people when you have come over the Jordan: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin. 13 And these shall stand upon mount Ebal to curse: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali. 14 And the Levites shall speak, and say to all the men of Israel with a loud voice,

15 'Cursed is the man who makes any engraved or molten image, an abomination to the LORD, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and puts it in a secret place.' And all the people shall answer and say, 'Amen.'

16 'Cursed is he who sets light by his father or his mother.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'

17 'Cursed is he who removes his neighbor's landmark.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'

18 'Cursed is he who makes the blind to wander out of the way.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'

19 'Cursed is he who perverts the judgment of the stranger, fatherless, and widow.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'

20 'Cursed is he who lies with his father's wife, because he uncovers his father's skirt.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'

21 'Cursed is he who lies with any manner of beast.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'

22 'Cursed is he who lies with his sister, the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'

23 'Cursed is he who lies with his mother-in-law.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'

24 'Cursed is he who smites his neighbor secretly.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'

25 'Cursed is he who takes reward to slay an innocent person.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'

[[deu027-026]]26 'Cursed is he who does not confirm all the words of this law to do them.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'"

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.26]*: Quoted in xref:#gal003-010[Galatians 3:10].

[#deu028%breakable]
=== Chapter 28

[.outline.text-center]
_The blessings for obedience, 1-14. The curses for disobedience, 15-68._

1 "And it shall come to pass, if you listen diligently to the voice of the LORD your God to observe and to do all his commandments which I command you this day, that the LORD your God will set you on high above all nations of the earth. 2 And all these blessings shall come on you and overtake you, if you listen to the voice of the LORD your God.

3 "Blessed you shall be in the city, and blessed you shall be in the field.

4 "Blessed shall be the fruit of your body, the fruit of your ground, the fruit of your livestock, the increase of your livestock, and the flocks of your sheep.

5 "Blessed shall be your basket and your store.

6 "Blessed you shall be when you come in, and blessed you shall be when you go out.

7 "The LORD shall cause your enemies who rise up against you to be smitten before your face. They shall come out against you one way and flee before you seven ways. 8 The LORD shall command the blessing upon you in your store-houses and in all that you set your hand to. And he shall bless you in the land which the LORD your God gives you. 9 The LORD shall establish you a holy people to himself, as he has sworn to you, if you keep the commandments of the LORD your God and walk in his ways. 10 And all the people of the earth shall see that you are called by the name of the LORD, and they shall be afraid of you. 11 And the LORD shall make you to abound in goods, in the fruit of your body, in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your ground in the land which the LORD swore to your fathers to give you. 12 The LORD shall open to you his good treasure, the heavens, to give rain to your land in its season and to bless all the work of your hand. And you shall lend to many nations, and you shall not borrow. 13 And the LORD shall make you the head and not the tail. And you shall be above only and not beneath if you listen to the commandments of the LORD your God which I command you this day to observe and to do them. 14 And you shall not go aside from any of the words which I command you this day, to the right hand or to the left, to go after other gods to serve them.

15 "But it shall come to pass, if you will not listen to the voice of the LORD your God to observe to do all his commandments and his statutes which I command you this day, that all these curses shall come upon you and overtake you.

16 "Cursed you shall be in the city, and cursed you shall be in the field.

17 "Cursed shall be your basket and your store.

18 "Cursed shall be the fruit of your body, the fruit of your land, the increase of your cows, and the flocks of your sheep.

19 "Cursed you shall be when you come in, and cursed you shall be when you go out.

20 "The LORD shall send upon you cursing, vexation, and rebuke in all that you undertake to perform until you are destroyed and until you perish quickly, because of the wickedness of your doings by which you have forsaken me. 21 The LORD shall make the pestilence cleave to you until he has consumed you from off the land where you go to possess it. 22 The LORD shall smite you with a consumption, with a fever, with an inflammation, with an extreme burning, with the sword, with blight, and with mildew. And they shall pursue you until you perish. 23 And your heaven that is over your head shall be brass, and the earth that is under you shall be iron. 24 The LORD shall make the rain of your land powder and dust. From heaven it shall come down upon you until you are destroyed.

25 "The LORD shall cause you to be smitten before your enemies. You shall go out one way against them and flee seven ways before them. And you shall be an object of trembling to all the kingdoms of the earth. 26 And your carcass shall be food for all birds of the air and for the beasts of the earth, and no man shall drive them away.

27 "The LORD will smite you with the boil of Egypt, with the emerods, with the scab, and with the itch, of which you cannot be healed. 28 The LORD shall smite you with the madness, blindness, and astonishment of heart. 29 You shall grope at noon-day, as the blind gropes in darkness. You shall not prosper in your ways. You shall only be oppressed and plundered evermore, and no man shall save you. 30 You shall betroth a wife and another man shall lie with her. You shall build a house and you shall not dwell in it. You shall plant a vineyard and shall not gather its grapes. 31 Your ox shall be slain before your eyes and you shall not eat any of it. Your donkey shall be violently taken away from before your face and shall not be restored to you. Your sheep shall be given to your enemies and you shall have no one to rescue them. 32 Your sons and your daughters shall be given to another people, and your eyes shall look and fail with longing for them all day long, and there shall be no might in your hand. 33 The fruit of your land and all your labors shall be eaten by a nation which you do not know. You shall only be oppressed and crushed always, 34 So that you are mad for the sight of your eyes which you shall see. 35 The LORD shall smite you in the knees and in the legs with a sore boil that cannot be healed, from the sole of your foot to the top of your head. 36 The LORD shall bring you and your king which you shall set over you to a nation which neither you nor your fathers have known. And there you shall serve other gods of wood and stone. 37 And you shall become an astonishment, a proverb, and a by-word among all nations where the LORD leads you.

38 "You shall carry much seed into the field and shall gather in little, for the locust shall consume it. 39 You shall plant vineyards and dress them, but shall neither drink the wine, nor gather the grapes, for the worm shall eat them. 40 You shall have olive-trees throughout all your borders, but you shall not anoint yourself with the oil, for your olive shall cast its fruit. 41 You shall beget sons and daughters, but you shall not enjoy them, for they shall go into captivity. 42 All your trees and fruit of your land the locust shall consume. 43 The stranger who is within you shall rise above you very high, and you shall come down very low. 44 He shall lend to you and you shall not lend to him. He shall be the head and you shall be the tail.

45 "Moreover, all these curses shall come upon you and shall pursue you and overtake you until you are destroyed, because you did not listen to the voice of the LORD your God to keep his commandments and his statutes which he commanded you. 46 And they shall be upon you for a sign and for a wonder, and upon your offspring forever.

47 "Because you did not serve the LORD your God with joyfulness and with gladness of hert, for the abundance of all things, 48 Therefore you shall serve your enemies which the LORD shall send against you in hunger, in thirst, in nakedness, and in lack of all things. And he shall put a yoke of iron upon your neck until he has destroyed you.

49 "The LORD shall bring a nation against you from far, from the end of the earth, as swift as the eagle flies, a nation whose language you shall not understand, 50 A nation of fierce countenance which shall not regard the person of the old, nor show favor to the young. 51 And he shall eat the fruit of your livestock and the fruit of your land until you are destroyed. He also shall not leave you either grain, wine, oil, the increase of your livestock, or flocks of your sheep until he has destroyed you. 52 And he shall besiege you in all your gates until your high and fortified walls in which you trusted come down throughout all your land. And he shall besiege you in all your gates throughout all your land which the LORD your God has given you. 53 And you shall eat the fruit of your own body, the flesh of your sons and of your daughters which the LORD your God has given you, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemies shall distress you. 54 And the man who is tender among you and very delicate, his eye shall be evil toward his brother, toward the wife of his bosom, and toward the remnant of his children whom he leaves, 55 So that he will not give to any of them the flesh of his children whom he shall eat, because he has nothing left in the siege and in the distress with which your enemies shall distress you in all your gates. 56 The tender and delicate woman among you, who would not venture to set the sole of her foot upon the ground for delicateness and tenderness, her eye shall be evil toward the husband of her bosom, toward her son, toward her daughter, 57 Toward her young one, her own offspring, and toward her children which she shall bear, for she shall eat them for lack of all things secretly in the siege and distress with which your enemy shall distress you in your gates.

58 "If you will not observe to do all the words of this law that are written in this book so that you may fear this glorious and fearful name, YAHWEH YOUR GOD, 59 Then the LORD will make your plagues and the plagues of your offspring wonderful, even great plagues and of long continuance, and severe sicknesses and of long continuance. 60 Moreover, he will bring upon you all the diseases of Egypt, of which you were afraid, and they shall cleave to you. 61 Also every sickness and every plague which is not written in the book of this law, the LORD will bring them upon you until you are destroyed. 62 And you shall be left few in number, whereas you were as the stars of heaven for multitude, because you would not obey the voice of the LORD your God. 63 And it shall come to pass, that as the LORD rejoiced over you to do you good and to multiply you, so the LORD will rejoice over you to destroy you and to bring you to nothing. And you shall be plucked from off the land where you go to possess it. 64 And the LORD shall scatter you among all people from one end of the earth even to the other, and there you shall serve other gods of wood and stone, which neither you nor your fathers have known. 65 And among these nations you shall find no ease, neither shall the sole of your foot have rest, but the LORD shall give you there a trembling heart, failing of eyes, and sorrow of mind. 66 And your life shall hang in doubt before you. And you shall fear day and night and shall have no assurance of your life. 67 In the morning you shall say, 'O that it were evening!' and at evening you shall say, 'O that it were morning!' for the fear of your heart with which you shall fear, and for the sight of your eyes which you shall see. 68 And the LORD shall bring you into Egypt again with ships by the way of which I have said to you, 'You shall no more see it again.' And there you shall be sold to your enemies for men-servants and women-servants, and no man shall buy you."

[#deu029%breakable]
=== Chapter 29

[.outline.text-center]
_Moses exhorts them to obedience by the memory of the works they had seen, 1-9. All are presented before the Lord to enter into his covenant, 10-17. The great wrath on him who flatters himself in his wickedness, 18-28. Secret things belong to God, 29._

1 These are the words of the covenant which the LORD commanded Moses to make with the children of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the covenant which he made with them in Horeb.

2 And Moses called to all Israel, and said to them, "You have seen all that the LORD did before your eyes in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, to all his servants, and to all his land— 3 The great trials which your eyes have seen, the signs, and those great miracles— [[deu029-004]]4 Yet the LORD has not given you a heart to perceive, eyes to see, and ears to hear to this day. 5 And I have led you forty years in the wilderness. Your clothes have not become old upon you, and your shoe has not become old upon your foot. 6 You have not eaten bread, neither have you drank wine or strong drink, so that you might know that he is the LORD your God. 7 And when you came to this place, Sihon the king of Heshbon and Og the king of Bashan came out against us to battle, and we smote them. 8 And we took their land and gave it for an inheritance to the Reubenites, to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh. 9 Therefore, keep the words of this covenant and do them so that you may prosper in all that you do.

10 "All of you stand this day before the LORD your God—your captains of your tribes, your elders, and your officers, with all the men of Israel, 11 Your little ones, your wives, and your stranger who is in your camp, from the hewer of your wood to the drawer of your water— 12 So that you should enter into covenant with the LORD your God and into his oath, which the LORD your God makes with you this day, 13 So that he may establish you today for a people to himself, and that he may be to you a God, as he has said to you and as he has sworn to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.

14 "Neither with you only do I make this covenant and this oath, 15 But with him who stands here with us this day before the LORD our God, and also with him who is not here with us this day 16 (For you know how we have dwelt in the land of Egypt and how we came through the nations which you passed by, 17 And you have seen their abominations and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them), 18 Lest there should be among you man, woman, family, or tribe whose heart turns away this day from the LORD our God to go and serve the gods of these nations; lest there should be among you a root that bears gall and wormwood, 19 And it should come to pass, when he hears the words of this curse, that he should bless himself in his heart, saying, 'I shall have peace, though I walk in the imagination of my heart,' to sweep away the moist with the dry. 20 The LORD will not spare him. But then the anger of the LORD and his jealousy shall smoke against that man, and all the curses that are written in this book shall lie upon him. And the LORD shall blot out his name from under heaven. 21 And the LORD shall separate him to evil out of all the tribes of Israel according to all the curses of the covenant that are written in this book of the law, 22 So that the generation to come of your children who arise after you and the stranger who comes from a distant land shall say—when they see the plagues of that land and the sicknesses which the LORD has laid upon it, 23 And that its whole land is brimstone, salt, and burning, that it is not sown, nor does it bear, nor does any grass grow in it like the overthrow of Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboim, which the LORD overthrew in his anger and in his wrath— 24 Then all the nations shall say, 'Why has the LORD done so to this land? What does the heat of this great anger mean?' 25 Then men shall say, 'Because they have forsaken the covenant of the LORD God of their fathers which he made with them when he brought them forth from the land of Egypt. 26 For they went and served other gods and worshiped them, gods which they did not know and which he had not given to them. 27 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against this land to bring upon it all the curses that are written in this book. 28 And the LORD rooted them out of their land in anger, in wrath, and in great indignation, and cast them into another land, as it is this day.'

29 "The secret things belong to the LORD our God, but those things which are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, so that we may do all the words of this law."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.4]*: Quoted in xref:#rom011-008[Romans 11:8].

[#deu030%breakable]
=== Chapter 30

[.outline.text-center]
_Great mercies promised to the penitent, 1-10. The commandment is manifest, 11-14. Death and life are set before them, 15-20._

1 "And it shall come to pass, when all these things have come upon you, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before you, and you call them to mind among all the nations where the LORD your God has driven you 2 And return to the LORD your God and obey his voice according to all that I command you this day—you and your children—with all your heart and with all your soul, 3 That the LORD your God will turn your captivity and have compassion upon you, and will return and gather you from all the nations where the LORD your God has scattered you. [[deu030-004]]4 If any of your outcasts are driven out to the uttermost parts of the heavens, from there the LORD your God will gather you, and from there he will bring you. 5 And the LORD your God will bring you into the land which your fathers possessed, and you shall possess it. And he will do you good and multiply you above your fathers.

6 "And the LORD your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring, to love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul, so that you may live. 7 And the LORD your God will put all these curses upon your enemies and upon those who hate you who have persecuted you. 8 And you shall return and obey the voice of the LORD and do all his commandments which I command you this day. 9 And the LORD your God will make you to abound in every work of your hand, in the fruit of your body, in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your land for good, for the LORD will again rejoice over you for good, as he rejoiced over your fathers, 10 If you listen to the voice of the LORD your God to keep his commandments and his statutes which are written in this book of the law, and if you turn to the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul.

11 "For this commandment which I command you this day is not hid from you, neither is it far off. [[deu030-012]]12 It is not in heaven, so that you should say, 'Who shall ascend for us to heaven and bring it to us so that we may hear it and do it?' [[deu030-013]]13 Neither is it beyond the sea, so that you should say, 'Who shall go over the sea for us and bring it to us so that we may hear it and do it?' [[deu030-014]]14 But the word is very near to you, in your mouth and in your heart, so that you may do it.

15 "Behold, I have set before you this day life and good, and death and evil, 16 In that I command you this day to love the LORD your God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments, his statutes, and his judgments, so that you may live and multiply, and the LORD your God shall bless you in the land where you go to possess it. 17 But if your heart turns away so that you will not hear, but are drawn away and worship other gods and serve them, 18 I denounce to you this day, that you shall surely perish, and that you shall not prolong your days upon the land where you pass over the Jordan to go to possess it. 19 I call heaven and earth to record this day against you, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Therefore, choose life so that both you and your offspring may live 20 To love the LORD your God, to obey his voice, and to cleave to him (for he is your life and the length of your days), so that you may dwell in the land which the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.4]*: Quoted in xref:#mth024-031[Matthew 24:31] and xref:#mrk013-027[Mark 13:27]. *[v.12]*: Quoted in xref:#rom010-006[Romans 10:6]. *[v.13]*: Paraphrased in xref:#rom010-007[Romans 10:7]. *[v.14]*: Quoted in xref:#rom010-008[Romans 10:8].

[#deu031%breakable]
=== Chapter 31

[.outline.text-center]
_Moses encourages the people, 1-6. He encourages Joshua, 7, 8. He delivers the law to the priests to be read in the seventh year to the people, 9-13. God gives a charge to Joshua, 14-18; and a song to testify against the people, 19-23. Moses delivers the book of the law to the Levites to keep, 24-27. He makes a protestation, 28-30._

1 And Moses went and spoke these words to all Israel. 2 And he said to them, "I am one hundred and twenty years old this day. I can no longer go out and come in. Also the LORD has said to me, 'You shall not go over this Jordan.' 3 The LORD your God, he will go over before you and he will destroy these nations from before you, and you shall possess them. And Joshua, he shall go over before you, as the LORD has said. 4 And the LORD shall do to them as he did to Sihon and to Og, kings of the Amorites, and to their land, whom he destroyed. 5 And the LORD shall give them up before your face so that you may do to them according to all the commandments which I have commanded you. 6 Be strong and of a good courage, do not fear, nor be afraid of them, for the LORD your God, it is he who goes with you. He will not fail you nor forsake you."

7 And Moses called to Joshua, and said to him in the sight of all Israel, "Be strong and of a good courage, for you must go with this people to the land which the LORD has sworn to their fathers to give them. And you shall cause them to inherit it. 8 And the LORD, it is he who goes before you. He will be with you. He will not fail you nor forsake you. Do not fear, neither be dismayed."

9 And Moses wrote this law and delivered it to the priests the sons of Levi, who bore the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and to all the elders of Israel. 10 And Moses commanded them, saying, "At the end of every seven years, in the solemnity of the year of release, in the feast of tabernacles, 11 When all Israel has come to appear before the LORD your God in the place which he chooses, you shall read this law before all Israel in their hearing. 12 Convene the people—men, women, children, and your stranger who is within your gates—so that they may hear, and that they may learn, and fear the LORD your God, and observe to do all the words of this law, 13 And that their children who have not known anything may hear and learn to fear the LORD your God, as long as you live in the land where you go over the Jordan to possess it."

14 And the LORD said to Moses, "Behold, your days approach that you must die. Call Joshua and present yourselves in the Tabernacle of the Congregation so that I may give him a charge." And Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves in the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 15 And the LORD appeared in the tabernacle in a pillar of a cloud. And the pillar of the cloud stood over the door of the tabernacle. 16 And the LORD said to Moses, "Behold, you shall sleep with your fathers, and this people will rise up and commit idolatry with the gods of the strangers of the land where they go to be among them, and will forsake me and break my covenant which I have made with them. 17 Then my anger shall be kindled against them in that day and I will forsake them and hide my face from them, and they shall be devoured and many evils and troubles shall befall them, so that they will say in that day, 'Have these evils not come upon us because our God is not among us?' 18 And I will surely hide my face in that day for all the evils which they have wrought, because they have turned to other gods.

19 "Now therefore, write this song for yourselves and teach it to the children of Israel. Put it in their mouths so that this song may be a witness for me against the children of Israel. 20 For when I have brought them into the land which I swore to their fathers that flows with milk and honey and they have eaten and filled themselves and waxed fat, they will turn to other gods, serve them, provoke me, and break my covenant. 21 And it shall come to pass, when many evils and troubles have befallen them, that this song shall testify against them as a witness, for it shall not be forgotten out of the mouths of their offspring. For I know their imagination which they form, even now, before I have brought them into the land which I swore." 22 Moses therefore wrote this song the same day and taught it to the children of Israel.

23 And he gave Joshua the son of Nun a charge, and said, "Be strong and of a good courage, for you shall bring the children of Israel into the land which I swore to them. And I will be with you."

24 And it came to pass, when Moses had made an end of writing the words of this law in a book until they were finished, 25 That Moses commanded the Levites who bore the ark of the covenant of the LORD, saying, 26 "Take this book of the law and put it by the side of the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God so that it may be there for a witness against you. 27 For I know your rebellion and your stiff neck. Behold, while I am still alive with you this day, you have been rebellious against the LORD. And how much more after my death? 28 Assemble to me all the elders of your tribes and your officers so that I may speak these words in their ears and call heaven and earth to record against them. 29 For I know that after my death you will utterly corrupt yourselves and turn aside from the way which I have commanded you. And evil will befall you in the latter days, because you will do evil in the sight of the LORD to provoke him to anger through the work of your hands."

30 And Moses spoke in the ears of all the congregation of Israel the words of this song until they were finished.

[#deu032%breakable]
=== Chapter 32

[.outline.text-center]
_Moses' song, which sets forth God's mercy and vengeance, 1-45. He exhorts them to set their hearts upon it, 46, 47. God sends him up to mount Nebo to see the land and to die, 48-52._

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|1 "Give ear, O heavens, and I will speak. [.linebr]#/# +
And hear, O earth, the words of my mouth.

|
|2 My doctrine shall drop as the rain, [.linebr]#/# +
my speech shall distill as the dew, [.linebr]#/# +
as the small rain upon the tender herb, [.linebr]#/# +
and as the showers upon the grass.

|
|3 For I will publish the name of the LORD. [.linebr]#/# +
Ascribe greatness to our God.

|
|4 "The Rock—his work is perfect. [.linebr]#/# +
For all his ways are judgment. [.linebr]#/# +
A God of truth and without iniquity. [.linebr]#/# +
He is just and right.

|
|5 They have corrupted themselves. [.linebr]#/# +
Their spot is not the spot of his children. [.linebr]#/# +
They are a perverse and crooked generation.

|
|6 Do you thus requite the LORD, O foolish people and unwise? [.linebr]#/# +
Is he not your Father who has bought you? [.linebr]#/# +
Has he not made you and established you?

|
|7 Remember the days of old, [.linebr]#/# +
consider the years of many generations. [.linebr]#/# +
Ask your father, and he will declare to you. [.linebr]#/# +
[Ask] your elders, and they will tell you.

|
|8 When the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance [.linebr]#/# +
when he separated the sons of Adam, [.linebr]#/# +
he set the bounds of the people [.linebr]#/# +
according to the number of the children of Israel.

|
|9 For the LORD'S portion is his people. [.linebr]#/# +
Jacob is the lot of his inheritance.

|
|10 "He found him in a desert land, [.linebr]#/# +
and in the barren, howling wilderness. [.linebr]#/# +
He led him around, he instructed him, [.linebr]#/# +
he kept him as the apple of his eye.

|
|11 As an eagle stirs up her nest, [.linebr]#/# +
flutters over her young, [.linebr]#/# +
spreads abroad her wings, takes them, [.linebr]#/# +
bears them on her wings,

|
|12 So the LORD alone led him, [.linebr]#/# +
and there was no strange god with him.

|
|13 He made him ride on the high places of the earth. [.linebr]#/# +
He ate the increase of the fields. [.linebr]#/# +
He nourished him with honey out of the rock, [.linebr]#/# +
and oil out of the flinty rock,

|
|14 With butter of cows, and milk of sheep, [.linebr]#/# +
with fat of lambs, [.linebr]#/# +
and rams of the breed of Bashan and goats, [.linebr]#/# +
with the finest of the wheat. [.linebr]#/# +
And you drank the pure blood of the grape.

|
|15 "But Jeshurun waxed fat and kicked. [.linebr]#/# +
You have waxed fat, you have grown thick, you are covered with fatness. [.linebr]#/# +
Then he forsook God who made him [.linebr]#/# +
and lightly esteemed the Rock of his salvation.

|
|16 They provoked him to jealousy with strange gods. [.linebr]#/# +
With abominations they provoked him to anger.

|
|[[deu032-017]]17 They sacrificed to devils, not to God, [.linebr]#/# +
to gods which they did not know, [.linebr]#/# +
to new gods who came newly up, [.linebr]#/# +
whom your fathers did not fear.

|
|18 Of the Rock who begot you, you are unmindful, [.linebr]#/# +
and have forgotten God who formed you.

|
|19 "And when the LORD saw it, he abhorred them, [.linebr]#/# +
because of the provoking of his sons and of his daughters.

|
|20 And he said, 'I will hide my face from them. [.linebr]#/# +
I will see what their end will be, [.linebr]#/# +
for they are a very perverse generation, [.linebr]#/# +
children in whom there is no faith.

|
|[[deu032-021]]21 They have moved me to jealousy with that which is not God. [.linebr]#/# +
They have provoked me to anger with their vanities. [.linebr]#/# +
And I will move them to jealousy with those who are not a people. [.linebr]#/# +
I will provoke them to anger with a foolish nation.

|
|22 For a fire is kindled in my anger, [.linebr]#/# +
and shall burn to the lowest hell, [.linebr]#/# +
consume the earth with her increase, [.linebr]#/# +
and set on fire the foundations of the mountains.

|
|23 'I will heap mischiefs upon them. [.linebr]#/# +
I will spend my arrows upon them.

|
|24 They shall be burnt with hunger and devoured with burning heat [.linebr]#/# +
and with bitter destruction. [.linebr]#/# +
I will also send the teeth of beasts upon them, [.linebr]#/# +
with the poison of serpents of the dust.

|
|25 The sword outside and terror inside, [.linebr]#/# +
shall destroy both the young man and the virgin, [.linebr]#/# +
the nursing child also with the man of gray hairs.

|
|26 I said, "I would scatter them into corners [.linebr]#/# +
and I would make their remembrance to cease from among men,"

|
|27 Were it not that I feared the wrath of the enemy, [.linebr]#/# +
lest their adversaries should behave themselves strangely, [.linebr]#/# +
and lest they should say, "Our hand is high, [.linebr]#/# +
and the LORD has not done all this."'

|
|28 "For they are a nation void of counsel, [.linebr]#/# +
neither is there any understanding in them.

|
|29 O that they were wise, that they understood this, [.linebr]#/# +
that they would consider their latter end!

|
|30 How should one chase a thousand [.linebr]#/# +
and two put ten thousand to flight, [.linebr]#/# +
unless their Rock had sold them [.linebr]#/# +
and the LORD had shut them up?

|
|31 For their rock is not as our Rock, [.linebr]#/# +
even our enemies themselves being judges.

|
|32 For their vine is of the vine of Sodom [.linebr]#/# +
and of the fields of Gomorrah. [.linebr]#/# +
Their grapes are grapes of gall, [.linebr]#/# +
their clusters are bitter.

|
|33 Their wine is the poison of serpents [.linebr]#/# +
and the cruel venom of asps.

|
|34 "Is this not laid up in store with me [.linebr]#/# +
and sealed up among my treasures?

|
|[[deu032-035]]35 To me belongs vengeance and recompense. [.linebr]#/# +
Their foot shall slide in due time, [.linebr]#/# +
for the day of their calamity is at hand, [.linebr]#/# +
and the things that shall come upon them make haste.

|
|[[deu032-036]]36 For the LORD shall judge his people [.linebr]#/# +
and have compassion on his servants [.linebr]#/# +
when he sees that their power is gone [.linebr]#/# +
and there is no one shut up or left.

|
|37 And he shall say, 'Where are their gods, [.linebr]#/# +
their rock in whom they trusted,

|
|38 Which ate the fat of their sacrifices [.linebr]#/# +
and drank the wine of their drink-offerings? [.linebr]#/# +
Let them rise up and help you [.linebr]#/# +
and be your protection.

|
|39 'See now that I, even I am he, [.linebr]#/# +
and there is no god with me. [.linebr]#/# +
I kill and I make alive. [.linebr]#/# +
I wound and I heal. [.linebr]#/# +
There is no one who can deliver out of my hand.

|
|40 For I lift up my hand to heaven, [.linebr]#/# +
and say, "I live forever."

|
|41 If I whet my glittering sword [.linebr]#/# +
and my hand takes hold of judgment, [.linebr]#/# +
I will render vengeance to my enemies [.linebr]#/# +
and will recompense those who hate me.

|
|42 I will make my arrows drunk with blood [.linebr]#/# +
and my sword shall devour flesh, [.linebr]#/# +
and that with the blood of the slain and of the captives [.linebr]#/# +
from the beginning of revenges upon the enemy.'

|
|[[deu032-043]]43 "Rejoice, O nations, with his people, [.linebr]#/# +
for he will avenge the blood of his servants, [.linebr]#/# +
and will render vengeance to his adversaries, [.linebr]#/# +
and will be merciful to his land and to his people."
|===

44 And Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the ears of the people—he and Joshua the son of Nun. 45 And Moses made an end of speaking all these words to all Israel, 46 And he said to them, "Set your hearts to all the words which I testify among you this day, which you shall command your children to observe to do, all the words of this law. 47 For it is not a vain thing for you, because it is your life, and through this thing you shall prolong your days in the land where you go over the Jordan to possess it."

48 And the LORD spoke to Moses that same day, saying, 49 "Ascend this mountain of Abarim, to mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, that is over against Jericho, and behold the land of Canaan which I give to the children of Israel for a possession. 50 And die on the mountain where you go and be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother died on mount Hor and was gathered to his people, 51 Because you trespassed against me among the children of Israel at the waters of Meribah-Kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin, and because you did not sanctify me in the midst of the children of Israel. 52 Yet you shall see the land before you, but you shall not go there to the land which I give the children of Israel."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.17]*: Quoted in xref:#fco010-020[1st Corinthians 10:20]. *[v.21]*: Quoted in xref:#rom010-019[Romans 10:19]. *[v.35]*: Quoted in xref:#rom012-019[Romans 12:19]; xref:#heb010-030[Hebrews 10:30]. *[v.36]*: Quoted in xref:#heb010-030[Hebrews 10:30]. *[v.43]*: Quoted in xref:#rom015-010[Romans 15:10]; possibly quoted in xref:#heb001-006[Hebrews 1:6].

[#deu033%breakable]
=== Chapter 33

[.outline.text-center]
_The majesty of God, 1-5. The blessings of the twelve tribes, 6-25. The excellency of Israel, 26-29._

1 And this is the blessing with which Moses, the man of God, blessed the children of Israel before his death: 2 And he said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"The LORD came from Sinai, [.linebr]#/# +
and rose up from Seir to them. [.linebr]#/# +
He shined forth from mount Paran, [.linebr]#/# +
and he came with tens of thousands of saints. [.linebr]#/# +
From his right hand went a fiery law for them.

|
|3 Indeed, he loved the people. [.linebr]#/# +
All his saints are in your hand, [.linebr]#/# +
and they sat down at your feet. [.linebr]#/# +
Each receives your words.

|
|4 Moses commanded us a law, [.linebr]#/# +
even the inheritance of the congregation of Jacob.

|
|5 And he was king in Jeshurun [.linebr]#/# +
when the heads of the people [.linebr]#/# +
and the tribes of Israel were assembled.

|
|6 "Let Reuben live, and not die, [.linebr]#/# +
and do not let his men be few."
|===

7 And this is the blessing of Judah:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Hear, LORD, the voice of Judah, [.linebr]#/# +
and bring him to his people. [.linebr]#/# +
Let his hands be sufficient for him. [.linebr]#/# +
May you be a help to him from his enemies."
|===

8 And of Levi he said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Let your Thummim and your Urim be with your holy one, [.linebr]#/# +
whom you proved at Massah [.linebr]#/# +
and with whom you strove at the waters of Meribah,

|
|9 Who said to his father and to his mother, [.linebr]#/# +
'I have not seen him,' [.linebr]#/# +
neither did he acknowledge his brothers, [.linebr]#/# +
nor know his own children, [.linebr]#/# +
for they have observed your word [.linebr]#/# +
and kept your covenant.

|
|10 They shall teach Jacob your judgments [.linebr]#/# +
and Israel your law. [.linebr]#/# +
They shall put incense before you [.linebr]#/# +
and whole burnt sacrifice upon your altar.

|
|11 Bless, LORD, his substance, [.linebr]#/# +
and accept the work of his hands. [.linebr]#/# +
Smite through the loins of those who rise against him [.linebr]#/# +
and of those who hate him, [.linebr]#/# +
so that they do not rise again."
|===

12 And of Benjamin he said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"The beloved of the LORD shall dwell in safety by him, [.linebr]#/# +
and the LORD shall cover him all day long, [.linebr]#/# +
and he shall dwell between his shoulders."
|===

13 And of Joseph he said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Blessed of the LORD be his land [.linebr]#/# +
for the precious things of heaven, for the dew, [.linebr]#/# +
for the deep that couches beneath,

|
|14 For the precious fruits brought forth by the sun, [.linebr]#/# +
for the precious things put forth by the moon,

|
|15 For the chief things of the ancient mountains, [.linebr]#/# +
for the precious things of the lasting hills,

|
|16 For the precious things of the earth and its fullness, [.linebr]#/# +
and for the good will of him who dwelt in the bush. [.linebr]#/# +
Let the blessing come upon the head of Joseph [.linebr]#/# +
and upon the top of the head of him who was separated from his brothers.

|
|17 His glory is like the first-born of his bull, [.linebr]#/# +
and his horns are like the horns of wild oxen. [.linebr]#/# +
With them he shall push the people together [.linebr]#/# +
to the ends of the earth. [.linebr]#/# +
And they are the tens of thousands of Ephraim, [.linebr]#/# +
and they are the thousands of Manasseh."
|===

18 And of Zebulun he said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Rejoice, Zebulun, in your going out, [.linebr]#/# +
and Issachar, in your tents.

|
|19 They shall call the people to the mountain. [.linebr]#/# +
There they shall offer sacrifices of righteousness, [.linebr]#/# +
for they shall draw out the abundance of the seas [.linebr]#/# +
and of treasures hid in the sand."
|===

20 And of Gad he said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Blessed is he who enlarges Gad. [.linebr]#/# +
He dwells as a lion [.linebr]#/# +
and tears the arm with the crown of the head.

|
|21 And he provided the first part for himself, [.linebr]#/# +
because there, in a portion of the lawgiver, he was seated. [.linebr]#/# +
And he came with the heads of the people. [.linebr]#/# +
He executed the justice of the LORD [.linebr]#/# +
and his judgments with Israel."
|===

22 And of Dan he said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Dan is a lion's whelp. [.linebr]#/# +
He shall leap from Bashan."
|===

23 And of Naphtali he said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"O Naphtali, satisfied with favor [.linebr]#/# +
and full with the blessing of the LORD, [.linebr]#/# +
possess the west and the south."
|===

24 And of Asher he said,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Let Asher be blessed with children. [.linebr]#/# +
Let him be acceptable to his brothers, [.linebr]#/# +
and let him dip his foot in oil.

|
|25 Your shoes shall be iron and brass. [.linebr]#/# +
And as your days, so your strength shall be.

|
|26 "There is no one like the God of Jeshurun, [.linebr]#/# +
who rides upon the heaven to your help [.linebr]#/# +
and in his excellence on the sky.

|
|27 The eternal God is your refuge, [.linebr]#/# +
and underneath are the everlasting arms. [.linebr]#/# +
And he shall thrust out the enemy from before you, [.linebr]#/# +
and shall say, 'Destroy them.'

|
|28 Israel then shall dwell in safety alone. [.linebr]#/# +
The fountain of Jacob shall be upon a land of grain and wine. [.linebr]#/# +
His heavens shall also drop down dew.

|
|29 Happy are you, O Israel! [.linebr]#/# +
Who is like you, O people saved by the LORD, [.linebr]#/# +
the shield of your help, [.linebr]#/# +
and he who is the sword of your excellence? [.linebr]#/# +
And your enemies shall be found liars to you, [.linebr]#/# +
and you shall tread upon their high places."
|===

[#deu034%breakable]
=== Chapter 34

[.outline.text-center]
_Moses, from mount Nebo, views the land, 1-4. He dies there, 5. His burial, 6. His age, 7. Thirty days' mourning for him, 8. Joshua succeeds him, 9. The praise of Moses, 10-12._

1 And Moses went up from the plains of Moab upon the mountain of Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, which is over against Jericho. And the LORD showed him all the land: from Gilead to Dan, 2 All Naphtali, the land of Ephraim, Manasseh, all the land of Judah, to the utmost sea, 3 The south, and the plain of the valley of Jericho, the city of palm-trees, to Zoar. 4 And the LORD said to him, "This is the land which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, 'I will give it to your offspring.' I have caused you to see it with your eyes, but you shall not go over there." 5 So Moses the servant of the LORD died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the LORD. 6 And he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over against Beth-peor. But no man knows of his sepulcher to this day. 7 And Moses was one hundred and twenty years old when he died. His eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated. 8 And the children of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab for thirty days. So the days of weeping and mourning for Moses were finished.

9 And Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands upon him. And the children of Israel listened to him and did as the LORD commanded Moses. 10 And there did not arise a prophet afterward in Israel like Moses, whom the LORD knew face to face, 11 In all the signs and the wonders which the LORD sent him to do in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, to all his servants, and to all his land, 12 And in all that mighty hand, and in all the great terror which Moses showed in the sight of all Israel.

[.text-center]
_[Tanach reading: go to xref:#joshua[Joshua]]_
