////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#esther]
== The Story of Esther

*Esther | Ἐσθήρ | אסתר*

[#est001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_Ahasuerus makes royal feasts, 1-9. Vashti, sent for, refuses to come, 10-12. Ahasuerus, by the counsel of Memucan, puts away Vashti and makes the decree of men's sovereignty, 13-22._

1 Now it came to pass in the days of Ahasuerus (this is Ahasuerus who reigned from India even to Cush, over one hundred and twenty-seven provinces), 2 That in those days, when king Ahasuerus sat on the throne of his kingdom, which was in the palace of Shushan, 3 In the third year of his reign, he made a feast to all his princes and his servants. The power of Persia and Media, the nobles and princes of the provinces, were before him 4 When he showed the riches of his glorious kingdom and the honor of his excellent majesty many days, even one hundred and eighty days.

5 And when these days had expired, the king held a feast for seven days for all the people who were present in the palace of Shushan, both for great and small, in the court of the garden of the king's palace 6 Where white, green, and blue hangings were fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble. The couches were of gold and silver upon a pavement of red, blue, white, and black marble. 7 And they gave them drink in vessels of gold (the vessels being diverse from one another) and royal wine in abundance, according to the state of the king. 8 And the drinking was according to the law, and no one was forced, for thus the king had appointed to all the officers of his house that they should do according to every man's pleasure. 9 Also, Vashti the queen made a feast for the women in the royal house which belonged to king Ahasuerus.

10 On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, Abagtha, Zethar, and Carcas, the seven chamberlains who served in the presence of Ahasuerus the king, 11 To bring Vashti the queen before the king with the royal crown to show the people and the princes her beauty, for she was fair to look upon. 12 But the queen Vashti refused to come at the king's commandment by his chamberlains. Therefore, the king was very angry and his anger burned in him.

13 Then the king said to the wise men who knew the times (for thus was the king's manner toward all who knew law and judgment 14 And were close to him: Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan, the seven princes of Persia and Media, who saw the king's face and who sat the first in the kingdom), 15 "What shall we do to the queen Vashti according to law because she has not performed the commandment of king Ahasuerus by the chamberlains?" 16 And Memucan answered before the king and the princes, "Vashti the queen has not done wrong to the king only, but also to all the princes and to all the people who are in all the provinces of king Ahasuerus. 17 For this deed of the queen will come abroad to all women to make their husbands contemptible in their eyes when they say, 'King Ahasuerus commanded Vashti the queen to be brought in before him, but she did not come.' 18 This day, the ladies of Persia and Media who have heard of the deed of the queen will say the same thing to all the king's princes. Thus there will arise too much contempt and wrath. 19 If it pleases the king, let a royal commandment go from him, and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes so that it may not be altered, that Vashti may no longer come before king Ahasuerus. And let the king give her royal estate to another who is better than she is. 20 And when the king's decree which he shall make is published throughout all his empire (for it is great), all the wives will give to their husbands honor, both to great and small."

21 And the saying pleased the king and the princes, and the king did according to the word of Memucan. 22 For he sent letters into all the king's provinces, into every province according to its writing and to every people after their language, that every man should bear rule in his own house, and that it should be published according to the language of every people.

[#est002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_Out of the choice of young women a queen is to be chosen, 1-4. Mordecai the adoptive father of Esther, 5-7. Esther is preferred over the rest, 8-11. The manner of purification and going before the king, 12-14. Esther, best pleasing the king, is made queen, 15-20. Mordecai, discovering a treason, is recorded in the chronicles, 21-23._

1 After these things, when the wrath of king Ahasuerus was appeased, he remembered Vashti and what she had done, and what was decreed against her. 2 Then the king's servants who ministered to him said, "Let there be fair young virgins sought for the king. 3 And let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom so that they may collect all the fair young virgins to the palace of Shushan to the house of the women, into the custody of Hege the king's chamberlain, keeper of the women. And let their things for purification be given to them. 4 And let the young woman who pleases the king be queen instead of Vashti." And the thing pleased the king, and he did so.

5 Now in the palace of Shushan there was a certain Jew, whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a Benjaminite, 6 Who had been carried away from Jerusalem with the captivity which had been carried away with Jeconiah king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away. 7 And he brought up Hadassah, that is, Esther, his uncle's daughter, for she had neither father nor mother. And the young woman was fair and beautiful. And when her father and mother were dead, Mordecai took her as his own daughter.

8 So it came to pass when the king's commandment and his decree were heard and when many young women were assembled at the palace of Shushan to the custody of Hegai, that Esther was brought also to the king's house to the custody of Hegai, keeper of the women. 9 And the young woman pleased him and she obtained kindness from him. And he speedily gave her things for purification, with such things as belonged to her, and seven attendants who were suitable to be given to her out of the king's house. And he moved her and her attendants to the best place of the house of the women. 10 Esther had not revealed her people nor her kindred, for Mordecai had charged her that she should not disclose it. 11 And Mordecai walked every day before the court of the women's house to know how Esther did and what would become of her.

12 Now when every young woman's turn had come to go before king Ahasuerus, after she had been there twelve months, according to the manner of the women (for thus were the days of their purifications accomplished, namely, six months with oil of myrrh and six months with sweet odors, and with other things for the purifying of the women), 13 Then in this manner every young woman came to the king: whatever she desired was given to her to go with her out of the house of the women to the king's house. 14 In the evening she went, and on the next day she returned into the second house of the women to the custody of Shaashgaz, the king's chamberlain, who kept the concubines. She came before the king no more unless the king delighted in her and she was called by name.

15 Now when the turn of Esther, the daughter of Abihail the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her as his daughter, had come to go before the king, she required nothing but what Hegai the king's chamberlain, the keeper of the women, appointed. And Esther obtained favor in the sight of all those who looked upon her. 16 Thus Esther was taken to king Ahasuerus into his royal house in the tenth month, which is the month Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign.

17 And the king loved Esther above all the women, and she obtained grace and favor in his sight more than all the virgins. So he set the royal crown upon her head and made her queen instead of Vashti. 18 Then the king made a great feast to all his princes and his servants, even Esther's feast. And he made a release to the provinces and gave gifts according to the state of the king.

19 And when the virgins were assembled the second time, Mordecai sat in the king's gate. 20 Esther had not yet revealed her kindred nor her people, as Mordecai had charged her, for Esther performed the commandment of Mordecai, as when she was brought up with him.

21 In those days, while Mordecai sat in the king's gate, two of the king's chamberlains, Bigthan and Teresh, who were keepers of the door, were angry and sought to lay hands on king Ahasuerus. 22 And the thing was known to Mordecai, who told it to Esther the queen. And Esther told the king about it in Mordecai's name. 23 And when inquisition was made about the matter and it was discovered, they were both hanged on a tree. And it was written in the book of the chronicles before the king.

[#est003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_Haman, advanced by the king and despised by Mordecai, seeks revenge upon all the Jews, 1-6. He casts lots, 7. He obtains by slander a decree from the king to put the Jews to death, 8-15._

1 After these things king Ahasuerus promoted Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, advancing him and setting his seat above all the princes who were with him. 2 And all the king's servants who were in the king's gate bowed and did obeisance to Haman, for the king had thus commanded concerning him. But Mordecai did not bow nor do him obeisance. 3 Then the king's servants who were in the king's gate said to Mordecai, "Why do you transgress the king's commandment?" 4 Now it came to pass when they spoke daily to him and he did not listen to them, that they told Haman, to see whether Mordecai's matters would stand, for he had told them that he was a Jew. 5 And when Haman saw that Mordecai did not bow nor do him obeisance, Haman was full of wrath. 6 And he scorned to lay hands on Mordecai alone, for they had revealed to him the people of Mordecai. Therefore, Haman sought to destroy all the Jews who were throughout the whole kingdom of Ahasuerus, even the people of Mordecai.

7 In the first month (that is, the month Nisan), in the twelfth year of king Ahasuerus, they cast Pur (that is, the lot) before Haman from day to day and from month to month, to the twelfth month (that is, the month Adar). 8 And Haman said to king Ahasuerus, "There is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among the people in all the provinces of your kingdom. And their laws are diverse from all people, neither do they keep the king's laws. Therefore, it is not for the king's profit to allow them to remain. 9 If it pleases the king, let it be written that they may be destroyed. And I will pay ten thousand talents of silver to the hands of those who have the charge of the business to bring it into the king's treasuries." 10 And the king took his ring from his hand and gave it to Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the Jews' enemy. 11 And the king said to Haman, "The silver is given to you, the people also, to do with them as it seems good to you."

12 Then the king's scribes were called on the thirteenth day of the first month, and all that Haman had commanded was written to the king's lieutenants, to the governors who were over every province, and to the rulers of every people of every province, according to its writing, and to every people after their language. In the name of king Ahasuerus it was written and sealed with the king's ring. 13 And the letters were sent by posts into all the king's provinces to destroy, to kill, and to cause to perish all Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day, even upon the thirteenth day of the twelfth month (that is, the month Adar), and to plunder their goods. 14 The copy of the writing for a commandment to be given in every province was published to all people that they should be ready for that day. 15 The posts departed, being hastened by the king's commandment, and the decree was given in the palace of Shushan. And the king and Haman sat down to drink, but the city of Shushan was perplexed.

[#est004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_The great mourning of Mordecai and the Jews, 1-3. Esther, understanding it, sends to Mordecai, who tells the cause and advises her to undertake the appeal, 4-9. She, excusing herself, is threatened by Mordecai, 10-14. She, appointing a fast, undertakes the appeal, 15-17._

1 When Mordecai perceived all that was done, Mordecai rent his clothes and put on sackcloth with ashes, went out into the midst of the city, and cried with a loud and bitter cry. 2 And he came as far as the king's gate, for no one could enter into the king's gate clothed with sackcloth. 3 And in every province wherever the king's commandment and his decree came, there was great mourning among the Jews, with fasting, weeping, and wailing. And many lay in sackcloth and ashes.

4 So Esther's attendants and her chamberlains came and told it to her. Then the queen was exceedingly grieved, and she sent clothing to clothe Mordecai and to take away his sackcloth from him, but he did not receive it. 5 Then Esther called for Hatach, one of the king's chamberlains, whom he had appointed to attend upon her, and commanded him to go to Mordecai to know what it was and why it was. 6 So Hatach went forth to Mordecai to the street of the city, which was before the king's gate. 7 And Mordecai told him all that had happened to him and of the sum of the money that Haman had promised to pay to the king's treasuries for the destruction of the Jews. 8 Also he gave him the copy of the writing of the decree that was given at Shushan to destroy them to show it to Esther, to declare it to her, and to charge her that she should go before the king to make supplication to him and to make request before him for her people.

9 And Hatach came and told Esther the words of Mordecai. 10 Again, Esther spoke to Hatach and gave him commandment to say to Mordecai, 11 "All the king's servants and the people of the king's provinces know that whoever, whether man or woman, comes to the king into the inner court who is not called, there is one law of his to put him to death, except him to whom the king holds out the golden scepter so that he may live. But I have not been called to come before the king these thirty days." 12 And they told Esther's words to Mordecai.

13 Then Mordecai commanded to answer Esther, "Do not think to yourself that you shall escape in the king's house more than all the Jews. 14 For if you altogether hold your peace at this time, then enlargement and deliverance will arise to the Jews from another place, but you and your father's house will be destroyed. And who knows whether you have come to the kingdom for such a time as this?"

15 Then Esther told them to return Mordecai this answer: 16 "Go, assemble all the Jews who are present in Shushan and fast for me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day. I also and my attendants will fast likewise. And so I will go before the king, which is not according to the law, and if I perish, I perish." 17 So Mordecai went his way and did according to all that Esther had commanded him.

[#est005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_Esther, adventuring on the king's favor, obtains the grace of the golden scepter and invites the king and Haman to a banquet, 1-5. She, being encouraged by the king in her appeal, invites them to another banquet the next day, 6-8. Haman, proud of his advancement, complains at the contempt of Mordecai, 9-13. By the counsel of Zeresh he prepares for him a gallows, 14._

1 Now it came to pass on the third day, that Esther put on her royal apparel and stood in the inner court of the king's house, over against the king's house. And the king sat upon his royal throne in the royal house, over against the gate of the house. 2 And it was so, when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the court, that she obtained favor in his sight, and the king held out to Esther the golden scepter that was in his hand. So Esther drew near and touched the top of the scepter. 3 Then the king said to her, "What do you wish, queen Esther? And what is your request? It shall be given to you even to the half of the kingdom." 4 And Esther answered, "If it seems good to the king, let the king and Haman come this day to the banquet that I have prepared for him."

5 Then the king said, "Cause Haman to make haste so that he may do as Esther has said." So the king and Haman came to the banquet that Esther had prepared. 6 And the king said to Esther at the banquet of wine, "What is your petition? It shall be granted you. And what is your request? Even to the half of the kingdom it shall be performed." 7 Then Esther answered, and said, "My petition and my request is this: 8 If I have found favor in the sight of the king, and if it pleases the king to grant my petition and to perform my request, let the king and Haman come to the banquet that I shall prepare for them, and I will do tomorrow as the king has said."

9 Then Haman went forth that day joyful and with a glad heart. But when Haman saw Mordecai in the king's gate, and that he did not stand up nor move for him, he was full of indignation against Mordecai. 10 Nevertheless, Haman refrained himself. And when he came home, he sent and called for his friends and Zeresh his wife. 11 And Haman told them about the glory of his riches, the multitude of his children, all the things in which the king had promoted him, and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of the king. 12 Haman said moreover, "Even Esther the queen let no man come in with the king to the banquet that she had prepared but myself. And tomorrow I am invited by her together with the king. 13 Yet all this avails me nothing so long as I see Mordecai the Jew sitting at the king's gate." 14 Then Zeresh his wife and all his friends said to him, "Let a gallows be made fifty cubits high, and tomorrow speak to the king so that Mordecai may be hanged upon it. Then go in merrily with the king to the banquet." And the thing pleased Haman, and he caused the gallows to be made.

[#est006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_Ahasuerus, reading in the chronicles of the good service done by Mordecai, takes care for his reward, 1-3. Haman, coming to appeal that Mordecai might be hanged, gives counsel that he might do him honor, 4-11. Complaining about this, his friends tell him about his final destiny, 12-14._

1 On that night the king could not sleep, and he commanded to bring the book of records of the chronicles, and they were read before the king. 2 And it was found written that Mordecai had reported Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king's chamberlains and the keepers of the door, who sought to lay hands on king Ahasuerus. 3 And the king said, "What honor and dignity has been done to Mordecai for this?" Then the king's servants who ministered to him said, "There has nothing been done for him." 4 And the king said, "Who is in the court?" Now Haman had come into the outward court of the king's house to speak to the king to hang Mordecai on the gallows that he had prepared for him. 5 And the king's servants said to him, "Behold, Haman stands in the court." And the king said, "Let him come in." 6 So Haman came in, and the king said to him, "What shall be done to the man whom the king delights to honor?" Now Haman thought in his heart, "To whom would the king delight to do honor more than myself?" 7 And Haman answered the king, "For the man whom the king delights to honor, 8 Let the royal apparel be brought which the king uses to wear, the horse that the king rides upon, and the royal crown which is set upon his head. 9 And let this apparel and horse be delivered to the hand of one of the king's most noble princes so that they may array the man whom the king delights to honor, bring him on horseback through the street of the city, and proclaim before him, 'Thus it shall be done to the man whom the king delights to honor.'"

10 Then the king said to Haman, "Make haste and take the apparel and the horse as you have said, and do even so to Mordecai the Jew who sits at the king's gate. Let nothing fail of all that you have spoken." 11 Then Haman took the apparel and the horse, arrayed Mordecai, brought him on horseback through the street of the city, and proclaimed before him, "Thus it shall be done to the man whom the king delights to honor."

12 And Mordecai came back to the king's gate, but Haman hastened to his house mourning and having his head covered. 13 And Haman told Zeresh his wife and all his friends everything that had befallen him. Then his wise men and Zeresh his wife said to him, "If Mordecai, before whom you have begun to fall, is of Jewish descent, you will not prevail against him, but will surely fall before him."

14 And while they were still talking with him, the king's chamberlains came and hastened to bring Haman to the banquet that Esther had prepared.

[#est007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_Esther, entertaining the king and Haman, makes an appeal for her own life and for her people's, 1-4. She accuses Haman, 5, 6. The king, in his anger, after being told about the gallows which Haman had made for Mordecai, causes him to be hanged thereon, 7-10._

1 So the king and Haman came to banquet with Esther the queen. 2 And the king said again to Esther on the second day at the banquet of wine, "What is your petition, queen Esther? It shall be granted to you. And what is your request? It shall be performed, even to the half of the kingdom." 3 Then Esther the queen answered and said, "If I have found favor in your sight, O king, and if it pleases the king, let my life be given to me at my petition and my people at my request, 4 For we are sold—I and my people—to be destroyed, to be slain, and to perish. But if we had been sold for men-servants and women-servants, I would have held my tongue, although the enemy could not have compensated for the damage to the king." 5 Then king Ahasuerus answered and said to Esther the queen, "Who is he and where is he who dares presume in his heart to do so?" 6 And Esther said, "The adversary and enemy is this wicked Haman." Then Haman was afraid before the king and the queen.

7 And the king arose from the banquet of wine in his wrath and went into the palace-garden. And Haman stood up to make request for his life to Esther the queen, for he saw that there was evil determined against him by the king. 8 Then the king returned out of the palace-garden into the place of the banquet of wine, and Haman had fallen upon the couch on which Esther was. Then the king said, "Will he force the queen also before me in the house?" As the word went out of the king's mouth, they covered Haman's face. 9 And Harbonah, one of the chamberlains, said before the king, "Behold also the gallows fifty cubits high which Haman had made for Mordecai, who had spoken good for the king, stands in the house of Haman." Then the king said, "Hang him upon it." 10 So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai. Then the king's wrath was pacified.

[#est008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_Mordecai is advanced, 1, 2. Esther makes an appeal to reverse Haman's letters, 3-6. Ahasuerus grants liberty to the Jews to defend themselves, 7-14. Mordecai's honor and the Jews' joy, 15-17._

1 On that day king Ahasuerus gave the house of Haman, the Jews' enemy, to Esther the queen. And Mordecai came before the king, for Esther had told what he was to her. 2 And the king took off his ring which he had taken from Haman and gave it to Mordecai. And Esther set Mordecai over the house of Haman.

3 And Esther spoke yet again before the king, fell down at his feet, and implored him with tears to put away the mischief of Haman the Agagite and his plan that he had devised against the Jews. 4 Then the king held out the golden scepter toward Esther. So Esther arose and stood before the king, 5 And said, "If it pleases the king, and if I have found favor in his sight, and the thing seems right before the king, and I am pleasing in his eyes, let it be written to reverse the letters devised by Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, which he wrote to destroy the Jews who are in all the king's provinces. 6 For how can I endure to see the evil that will come to my people? Or how can I endure to see the destruction of my kindred?"

7 Then king Ahasuerus said to Esther the queen and to Mordecai the Jew, "Behold, I have given Esther the house of Haman, and they have hanged him upon the gallows because he laid his hand upon the Jews. 8 Also, write to the Jews, as it pleases you, in the king's name, and seal it with the king's ring, for the writing which is written in the king's name and sealed with the king's ring, no man may reverse."

9 Then the king's scribes were called at that time in the third month (that is, the month Sivan) on the twenty-third day. And it was written according to all that Mordecai commanded to the Jews, to the lieutenants, and the deputies and rulers of the provinces which are from India to Cush, one hundred and twenty-seven provinces, to every province according to its writing, to every people after their language, and to the Jews according to their writing and according to their language. 10 And he wrote in king Ahasuerus's name and sealed it with the king's ring. He sent letters by posts on horseback, riding on royal horses that were bred from swift horses. 11 In them the king granted the Jews who were in every city to assemble and to stand for their life, to destroy, to slay, and to cause to perish all the power of the people and province that would assault them, both little ones and women, and to plunder their goods, 12 Upon one day in all the provinces of king Ahasuerus, namely, upon the thirteenth day of the twelfth month (which is the month Adar). 13 The copy of the writing for a commandment to be given in every province was published to all people so that the Jews would be ready for that day to avenge themselves on their enemies. 14 So the posts who rode upon royal horses went out, being hastened and pressed on by the king's commandment. And the decree was given at the palace of Shushan.

15 And Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royal apparel of blue and white, with a great crown of gold and with a garment of fine linen and purple, and the city of Shushan rejoiced and was glad. 16 The Jews had light, gladness, joy, and honor. 17 And in every province and in every city, wherever the king's commandment and his decree came, the Jews had joy and gladness, a feast and a good day. And many of the people of the land became Jews, for the fear of the Jews fell upon them.

[#est009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_The Jews slay their enemies and the ten sons of Haman, 1-11. Ahasuerus, at the request of Esther, grants another day of slaughter and Haman's sons to be hanged, 12-19. The two days of Purim are made a festival, 20-32._

1 Now in the twelfth month (that is, the month Adar), on the thirteenth day of the same, when the king's commandment and his decree drew near to be put in execution, on the day that the enemies of the Jews hoped to have power over them (though it was turned to the contrary, that the Jews had rule over those who hated them), 2 The Jews assembled in their cities throughout all the provinces of king Ahasuerus to lay hands on those who sought their hurt. And no man could withstand them, for the fear of them fell upon all people. 3 And all the rulers of the provinces, the lieutenants, the deputies, and officers of the king helped the Jews, because the fear of Mordecai fell upon them. 4 For Mordecai was great in the king's house and his fame went out throughout all the provinces, for this man Mordecai became greater and greater. 5 Thus the Jews smote all their enemies with the stroke of the sword, with slaughter, and with destruction, and did what they pleased to those who hated them. 6 And in the palace of Shushan the Jews slew and destroyed five hundred men. 7 And they slew Parshandatha, Dalphon, Aspatha, 8 Poratha, Adalia, Aridatha, 9 Parmashta, Arisai, Aridai, and Vajezatha, 10 The ten sons of Haman the son of Hammedatha, the enemy of the Jews, but they did not lay their hands on the plunder.

11 On that day the number of those who were slain in the palace of Shushan was brought before the king. 12 And the king said to Esther the queen, "The Jews have slain and destroyed five hundred men in the palace of Shushan and the ten sons of Haman. What have they done in the rest of the king's provinces? Now what is your petition? It shall be granted to you. Or what is your request further? It shall be done." 13 Then Esther said, "If it pleases the king, let it be granted to the Jews who are in Shushan to do tomorrow also according to this day's decree, and let Haman's ten sons be hanged upon the gallows." 14 And the king commanded it to be done so. And the decree was given at Shushan, and they hanged Haman's ten sons. 15 For the Jews who were in Shushan assembled also on the fourteenth day of the month Adar and slew three hundred men at Shushan. But on the plunder they did not lay their hands.

16 But the other Jews who were in the king's provinces assembled and stood for their lives and had rest from their enemies, and slew seventy-five thousand of their foes (but they did not lay their hands on the plunder) 17 On the thirteenth day of the month Adar. And on the fourteenth day of the same they rested and made it a day of feasting and gladness.

18 But the Jews who were at Shushan assembled on the thirteenth day of the month and on the fourteenth day. And on the fifteenth day of the same they rested and made it a day of feasting and gladness. 19 Therefore, the Jews of the villages, who dwelt in the unwalled towns, made the fourteenth day of the month Adar a day of gladness and feasting, and a good day, and of sending portions to one another.

20 And Mordecai wrote these things and sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of king Ahasuerus, both near and far, 21 To establish this among them, that they should keep the fourteenth day of the month Adar and the fifteenth day of the same every year, 22 As the days on which the Jews rested from their enemies, and the month which was turned for them from sorrow to joy, and from mourning into a good day; that they should make them days of feasting and joy, and of sending portions to one another and gifts to the poor.

23 And the Jews undertook to do as they had begun and as Mordecai had written to them, 24 Because Haman the son of Hammedatha, the Agagite, the enemy of all the Jews, had devised against the Jews to destroy them and had cast Pur (that is, the lot) to consume them and to destroy them. 25 But when Esther came before the king, he commanded by letters that his wicked plan which he devised against the Jews should return upon his own head, and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows. 26 Therefore, they called these days Purim after the name of Pur. Therefore, for all the words of this letter, and of that which they had seen concerning this matter, and which had come to them, 27 The Jews ordained and took upon themselves, upon their descendants, and upon all those who joined themselves to them, so that it should not fail that they would keep these two days according to their writing and according to their appointed time every year, 28 And that these days should be remembered and kept throughout every generation, every family, every province, and every city, and that these days of Purim should not fail from among the Jews, nor their memorial perish from their descendants.

29 Then Esther the queen, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai the Jew, wrote with all authority to confirm this second letter of Purim. 30 And he sent the letters to all the Jews, to the one hundred and twenty-seven provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, with words of peace and truth, 31 To confirm these days of Purim in their times appointed, according as Mordecai the Jew and Esther the queen had enjoined them, and as they had decreed for themselves and for their descendants the matters of the fastings and their cry. 32 And the decree of Esther confirmed these matters of Purim, and it was written in the book.

[#est010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_Ahasuerus' greatness, 1, 2. Mordecai's advancement, 3._

1 And king Ahasuerus laid a tribute upon the land and upon the islands of the sea. 2 And all the acts of his power and of his might, and the declaration of the greatness of Mordecai, to which the king advanced him, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia? 3 For Mordecai the Jew was next to king Ahasuerus, great among the Jews and accepted by the multitude of his brothers, seeking the wealth of his people and speaking peace to all his nation.

[.text-center]
_[Tanach reading: go to xref:#daniel[Daniel]]_
