////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#exodus]
== The Second Book of Moses, Called Exodus

*Exodus | Έξοδος | שמות*

[#exo001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_The children of Israel, after Joseph's death, increase, 1-7. The more they are oppressed by a new king, the more they multiply, 8-14. The godliness of the midwives in saving the male children alive, 15-21. Pharaoh commands the male children to be cast into the river, 22._

1 Now these are the names of the children of Israel who came into Egypt, every man and his household came with Jacob: 2 Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, 3 Issachar, Zebulun, Benjamin, 4 Dan, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 5 And all the souls who descended from Jacob were seventy souls, and Joseph was in Egypt already. 6 And Joseph died, and all his brothers, and all that generation. 7 And the children of Israel were fruitful, increased abundantly, multiplied, and became exceedingly mighty, and the land was filled with them.

[[exo001-008]]8 Now there arose a new king over Egypt who did not know Joseph. 9 And he said to his people, "Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we are. 10 Come, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply, and it come to pass that when any war breaks out, they will join with our enemies and fight against us and depart from the land." 11 Therefore, they set over them task-masters to afflict them with their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure-cities: Pithom and Raamses. 12 But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew. And they were grieved because of the children of Israel. 13 And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigor. 14 And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage in mortar, in brick, and in all manner of service in the field. All their service in which they made them serve was with rigor.

15 And the king of Egypt spoke to the Hebrew midwives (of which the name of one was Shiphrah and the name of the other Puah), 16 And he said, "When you do the service of a midwife to the Hebrew women and see them upon the stools, if it is a son, then you shall kill him, but if it is a daughter, then she shall live." 17 But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but saved the male children alive. 18 And the king of Egypt called for the midwives and said to them, "Why have you done this thing and have saved the male children alive?" 19 And the midwives said to Pharaoh, "Because the Hebrew women are not as the Egyptian women. For they are lively and deliver before the midwives come to them." 20 Therefore, God dealt well with the midwives. And the people multiplied and became very mighty. 21 And it came to pass, because the midwives feared God, that he made them houses. 22 And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, "Every son who is born you shall cast into the river, and every daughter you shall save alive."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.8]*: Quoted in xref:#act007-018[Acts 7:18].

[#exo002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_Moses is born and then laid in an ark in the reeds, 1-4. He is found and brought up by Pharaoh's daughter, 5, 6; who employs his mother to nurse him, 7-10. He slays an Egyptian, 11, 12. He reproves a Hebrew, 13, 14. He flees into Midian and marries Zipporah, 15-21. Gershom is born, 22. God respects the Israelites' cry, 23-25._

1 And there went a man of the house of Levi who married a daughter of Levi. 2 And the woman conceived and bore a son. And when she saw him that he was a handsome child, she hid him three months. 3 And when she could no longer hide him, she took for him a basket of bulrushes, daubed it with slime and with pitch, put the child therein, and she laid it in the reeds by the river's brink. 4 And his sister stood afar off to know what would be done to him.

5 And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river, and her attendants walked along by the river's side. And when she saw the basket among the reeds, she sent her servant to fetch it. 6 And when she had opened it, she saw the child, and behold, the baby wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, "This is one of the Hebrews' children." 7 Then his sister said to Pharaoh's daughter, "Shall I go and call for you a nurse of the Hebrew women so that she may nurse the child for you?" 8 And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, "Go." And the young woman went and called the child's mother. 9 And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, "Take this child away and nurse it for me, and I will give you your wages." And the woman took the child and nursed it. 10 And the child grew, and she brought him to Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses, saying, "Because I drew him out of the water."

11 And it came to pass in those days, when Moses was grown, that he went out to his brothers and looked at their burdens. And he spied an Egyptian smiting a Hebrew, one of his brothers. 12 And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian and hid him in the sand. 13 And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together. And he said to him who did the wrong, "Why do you smite your fellow?" [[exo002-014]]14 And he said, "Who made you a prince and a judge over us? Do you intend to kill me as you killed the Egyptian?" And Moses feared and said, "Surely this thing is known."

[[exo002-015]]15 Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh and dwelt in the land of Midian. And he sat down by a well.

16 Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters, and they came and drew water and filled the troughs to water their father's flock. 17 And the shepherds came and drove them away, but Moses stood up and helped them and watered their flock. 18 And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, "How is it that you have come so soon today?" 19 And they said, "An Egyptian delivered us from the hand of the shepherds, and also drew enough water for us and watered the flock." 20 And he said to his daughters, "And where is he? Why is it that you have left the man? Call him so that he may eat bread." 21 And Moses was content to dwell with the man. And he gave Zipporah his daughter to Moses. 22 And she bore him a son, and he called his name Gershom, for he said, "I have been a stranger in a strange land."

23 And it came to pass in process of time, that the king of Egypt died, and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage and they cried. And their cry ascended to God, by reason of the bondage. 24 And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. 25 And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God took notice of them.

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.14]*: Quoted in xref:#act007-027[Acts 7:27-28], xref:#act007-035[7:35]. *[v.15]*: Quoted in xref:#act007-029[Acts 7:29].

[#exo003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_Moses keeps Jethro's flock, 1. God appears to him in a burning bush, 2-8. He sends him to deliver Israel, 9-12. The name of God, 13, 14. His message to Israel and Pharaoh, whose opposition is foretold, 15-19. He is assured of Israel's deliverance, 20-22._

1 Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the far side of the desert and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb. [[exo003-002]]2 And the angel of the LORD appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. And he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. 3 And Moses said, "I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt." 4 And when the LORD saw that he turned aside to see, God called to him out of the midst of the bush and said, "Moses, Moses." And he said, "Here I am." [[exo003-005]]5 And he said, "Do not approach here. Take off your shoes from your feet, for the place on which you stand is holy ground." [[exo003-006]]6 Moreover, he said, "I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob." And Moses hid his face because he was afraid to look upon God.

[[exo003-007]]7 And the LORD said, "I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt and have heard their cry by reason of their task-masters. For I know their sorrows, [[exo003-008]]8 And I have come down to deliver them from the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them out of that land to a good and large land, to a land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. 9 Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel has come to me, and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppress them.

[[exo003-010]]10 "Come now therefore, and I will send you to Pharaoh so that you may bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt." 11 And Moses said to God, "Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt?" [[exo003-012]]12 And he said, "Certainly I will be with you. And this shall be a token to you that I have sent you: when you have brought forth the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God upon this mountain."

13 And Moses said to God, "Behold, when I come to the children of Israel and say to them, 'The God of your fathers has sent me to you,' they may say to me, 'What is his name?' What shall I say to them?" [[exo003-014]]14 And God said to Moses, "I AM WHO I AM." And he said, "Thus you shall say to the children of Israel: 'I AM has sent me to you.'" 15 And God said again to Moses, "Thus you shall say to the children of Israel: 'The LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob has sent me to you.' This is my name forever, and this is my memorial to all generations. 16 Go and assemble the elders of Israel and say to them, 'The LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob appeared to me, saying, "I have surely visited you and seen that which is done to you in Egypt. 17 And I have said I will bring you out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, to a land flowing with milk and honey."' 18 And they shall listen to your voice, and you shall come—you and the elders of Israel—to the king of Egypt, and you shall say to him, 'The LORD God of the Hebrews has met with us. And now let us go (we implore you) three days journey into the wilderness so that we may sacrifice to the LORD our God.' 19 And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go, not even by a mighty hand. 20 And I will stretch out my hand and smite Egypt with all my wonders which I will do in the midst thereof. And after that he will let you go. 21 And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. And it shall come to pass, that when you go, you shall not go empty, 22 But every woman shall ask her neighbor and her who dwells in her house for jewels of silver, jewels of gold, and clothing. And you shall put them upon your sons and upon your daughters. And you shall plunder the Egyptians."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.2]*: Quoted in xref:#act007-030[Acts 7:30]. *[v.5]*: Quoted in xref:#act007-033[Acts 7:33]. *[v.6]*: Quoted in xref:#mth022-032[Matthew 22:32]; xref:#mrk012-026[Mark 12:26]; xref:#luk020-037[Luke 20:37]; xref:#act007-032[Acts 7:32]. *[v.7]*: Quoted in xref:#act007-034[Acts 7:34]. *[v.8]*: Quoted in xref:#act007-034[Acts 7:34]. *[v.10]*: Quoted in xref:#act007-034[Acts 7:34]. *[v.12]*: Quoted in xref:#act007-007[Acts 7:7]. *[v.14]*: Quoted in xref:#jhn008-058[John 8:58].

[#exo004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_Moses's rod is turned into a serpent, 1-5. His hand is leprous, 6-9. He is reluctant to be sent, 10-12. Aaron is appointed to assist him, 13-17. Moses departs from Jethro, 18-20. God's message to Pharaoh, 21-23. Zipporah circumcises her son, 24-26. Aaron is sent to meet Moses, 27, 28. The people believe them, 29-31._

1 And Moses answered and said, "But behold, they will not believe me, nor listen to my voice, for they will say, 'The LORD has not appeared to you.'" 2 And the LORD said to him, "What is that in your hand?" And he said, "A rod." 3 And he said, "Cast it on the ground." And he cast it on the ground, and it became a serpent. And Moses fled from before it. 4 And the LORD said to Moses, "Put forth your hand and take it by the tail." And he put forth his hand and caught it, and it became a rod in his hand. 5 "This is so that they may believe that the LORD God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob has appeared to you."

6 And the LORD said furthermore to him, "Now put your hand into your bosom." And he put his hand into his bosom. And when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow. 7 And he said, "Put your hand into your bosom again." And he put his hand into his bosom again and drew it out of his bosom, and behold, it was turned again as his other flesh. 8 "And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe you, neither listen to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the voice of the latter sign. 9 And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe even these two signs, neither listen to your voice, that you shall take some of the water from the river and pour it upon the dry land. And the water which you take out of the river shall become blood upon the dry land."

10 And Moses said to the LORD, "O my Lord, I am not eloquent, neither before, nor since you have spoken to your servant, but I am slow of speech and of a slow tongue." 11 And the LORD said to him, "Who has made man's mouth? Or who makes the mute, the deaf, the seeing, or the blind? Is it not I, the LORD? 12 Now therefore, go, and I will be with your mouth and teach you what you shall say." 13 And he said, "O my Lord, send, I pray you, by the hand of him whom you will send."

14 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Moses and he said, "Is there not Aaron the Levite your brother? I know that he can speak well. And also behold, he comes forth to meet you. And when he sees you, he will be glad in his heart. 15 And you shall speak to him and put words in his mouth. And I will be with your mouth and with his mouth and will teach you what you shall do. 16 And he shall speak for you to the people. And he shall be, even he shall be to you as a mouth, and you shall be to him as God. 17 And you shall take this rod in your hand, with which you shall perform signs."

18 And Moses went and returned to Jethro his father-in-law and said to him, "Let me go, I pray you, and return to my brothers who are in Egypt and see whether they are still alive." And Jethro said to Moses, "Go in peace." 19 And the LORD said to Moses in Midian, "Go, return into Egypt. For all the men are dead who sought your life." 20 And Moses took his wife and his sons and set them upon a donkey, and he returned to the land of Egypt. And Moses took the rod of God in his hand.

21 And the LORD said to Moses, "When you go to return into Egypt, see that you perform all those wonders before Pharaoh which I have put in your hand. But I will harden his heart so that he shall not let the people go. 22 And you shall say to Pharaoh, 'Thus says the LORD: "Israel is my son, even my first-born. 23 And I say to you, 'Let my son go so that he may serve me.' And if you refuse to let him go, behold, I will slay your son, even your first-born."'"

24 And it came to pass on the way at a lodging place, that the LORD met him and sought to kill him. 25 Then Zipporah took a sharp stone, cut off the foreskin of her son, and cast it at his feet, and said, "Surely a bloody husband you are to me." 26 So he let him go. Then she said, "A bloody husband you are because of the circumcision."

27 And the LORD said to Aaron, "Go into the wilderness to meet Moses." And he went and met him on the mountain of God and kissed him. 28 And Moses told Aaron all the words of the LORD who had sent him and all the signs which he had commanded him. 29 And Moses and Aaron went and assembled all the elders of the children of Israel. 30 And Aaron spoke all the words which the LORD had spoken to Moses and performed the signs in the sight of the people. 31 And the people believed. And when they heard that the LORD had visited the children of Israel and that he had looked upon their affliction, then they bowed their heads and worshiped.

[#exo005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_Pharaoh chides Moses and Aaron for their message, 1-5. He increases the Israelites' task, 6-14. He checks their complaints, 15-18. They cry out upon Moses and Aaron, 19-21. Moses expostulates with God, 22, 23._

1 And afterward Moses and Aaron went in and told Pharaoh, "Thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'Let my people go so that they may hold a feast to me in the wilderness.'" 2 And Pharaoh said, "Who is the LORD that I should obey his voice to let Israel go? I do not know the LORD, neither will I let Israel go." 3 And they said, "The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Let us go, we pray you, three days' journey into the desert and sacrifice to the LORD our God, lest he fall upon us with pestilence or with the sword." 4 And the king of Egypt said to them, "Why do you, Moses and Aaron, hinder the people from their works? Go to your burdens." 5 And Pharaoh said, "Behold, the people of the land are now many, and you make them rest from their burdens." 6 And Pharaoh commanded the same day the task-masters of the people and their officers, saying, 7 "You shall no longer give the people straw to make brick as before. Let them go and gather straw for themselves. 8 And the number of the bricks which they made before, you shall lay upon them. You shall not diminish anything thereof. Because they are idle, therefore they cry, saying, 'Let us go and sacrifice to our God.' 9 Let more work be laid upon the men so that they may labor therein, and do not let them regard vain words."

10 And the task-masters of the people went out, along with their officers, and they spoke to the people, saying, "Thus says Pharaoh: 'I will not give you straw. 11 Go, get yourselves straw where you can find it, yet not anything of your work shall be diminished.'" 12 So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble instead of straw. 13 And the task-masters hastened them, saying, "Fulfill your works, your daily tasks, as when there was straw." 14 And the officers of the children of Israel, which Pharaoh's task-masters had set over them, were beaten and were demanded, "Why have you not fulfilled your task in making brick, both yesterday and today, as before?"

15 Then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried to Pharaoh, saying, "Why do you deal thus with your servants? 16 There is no straw given to your servants, and they say to us, 'Make brick.' And behold, your servants are beaten, but the fault is in your own people." 17 But he said, "You are idle. You are idle. Therefore, you say, 'Let us go and do sacrifice to the LORD.' 18 Therefore, go now and work. For no straw shall be given to you, yet you shall deliver the number of bricks." 19 And the officers of the children of Israel saw that they were in evil case after it was said, "You shall not diminish anything from your bricks of your daily task." 20 And they met Moses and Aaron, who stood in the way, as they came forth from Pharaoh, 21 And they said to them, "May the LORD look upon you and judge, because you have made our savor to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in their hands to slay us."

22 And Moses returned to the LORD and said, "Lord, why have you so ill treated this people? Why is it that you have sent me? 23 For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has done evil to this people, neither have you delivered your people at all."

[#exo006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_God renews his promise by his name YAHWEH, 1-8. Moses vainly attempts to encourage the Israelites, 9. He and Aaron are again sent to Pharaoh, 10-13. The genealogy of Reuben, of Simeon, and of Levi, from whom came Moses and Aaron, 14-25. The history resumed, 26-30._

1 Then the LORD said to Moses, "Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh. For with a strong hand he shall let them go, and with a strong hand he shall drive them from his land."

2 And God spoke to Moses and said to him, "I am the LORD. 3 And I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob by the name of God Almighty, but by my name, YAHWEH, I was not known to them. 4 And I have also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, in which they were strangers. 5 And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage, and I have remembered my covenant. 6 Therefore, say to the children of Israel, 'I am the LORD, and I will bring you from under the burdens of the Egyptians and deliver you from their bondage and redeem you with an out-stretched arm and with great judgments. 7 And I will take you for my people, and I will be to you a God, and you shall know that I am the LORD your God who brings you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. 8 And I will bring you into the land, concerning which I swore to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, and I will give it to you for a heritage. I am the LORD.'" 9 And Moses thus spoke to the children of Israel, but they did not listen to Moses by reason of anguish of spirit and cruel bondage.

10 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 11 "Go in, speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel depart from his land." 12 And Moses spoke before the LORD, saying, "Behold, the children of Israel have not listened to me. How then shall Pharaoh hear me, who am of uncircumcised lips?" 13 And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron and gave them a charge to the children of Israel and to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.

14 These are the heads of their father's houses. The sons of Reuben (the first-born of Israel): Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. These are the families of Reuben. 15 And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman. These are the families of Simeon. 16 And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. And the years of the life of Levi were one hundred and thirty-seven years. 17 The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimi, according to their families. 18 And the sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. And the years of the life of Kohath were one hundred and thirty-three years. 19 And the sons of Merari: Mahali and Mushi. These are the families of Levi according to their generations. 20 And Amram took for himself Jochebed, his father's sister, for a wife. And she bore him Aaron and Moses. And the years of the life of Amram were one hundred and thirty-seven years. 21 And the sons of Izhar: Korah, Nepheg, and Zichri. 22 And the sons of Uzziel: Mishael, Elzaphan, and Zithri. 23 And Aaron took for himself Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of Naashon, for a wife. And she bore him Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 24 And the sons of Korah: Assir, Elkanah, and Abiasaph. These are the families of the Korhites. 25 And Eleazar, Aaron's son, took for himself one of the daughters of Putiel for a wife. And she bore to him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers of the Levites according to their families. 26 These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom the LORD said, "Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies." 27 These are those who spoke to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt. These are that Moses and Aaron.

28 And it came to pass on the day when the LORD spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt, 29 That the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, "I am the LORD. Speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, all that I say to you." 30 And Moses said before the LORD, "Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh listen to me?"

[#exo007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_Moses and Aaron are encouraged to go again to Pharaoh, 1-6. Their age, 7. Aaron's rod is turned into a serpent, 8-10. The sorcerers do the like; but their rods are swallowed up by Aaron's, 11, 12. Pharaoh's heart is hardened, 13. God's message to Pharaoh, 14-18. The river is turned into blood; and the consequent distress of the Egyptians, 19-25._

1 And the LORD said to Moses, "Behold, I have made you a god to Pharaoh, and Aaron your brother shall be your prophet. 2 You shall speak all that I command you, and Aaron your brother shall speak to Pharaoh, so that he sends the children of Israel out of his land. 3 And I will harden Pharaoh's heart and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt. 4 But Pharaoh shall not listen to you, and I will lay my hand upon Egypt and bring forth my armies, my people the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great judgments. 5 And the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD when I stretch forth my hand upon Egypt and bring out the children of Israel from among them." 6 And Moses and Aaron did as the LORD commanded them. And they did so. 7 And Moses was eighty years old and Aaron eighty-three years old when they spoke to Pharaoh.

8 And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying, 9 "When Pharaoh speaks to you, saying, 'Show a miracle,' then you shall say to Aaron, 'Take your rod and cast it before Pharaoh,' and it shall become a serpent." 10 And Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and they did so as the LORD had commanded. And Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh and before his servants, and it became a serpent. 11 Then Pharaoh also called the wise-men and the sorcerers. And the magicians of Egypt also did in like manner with their enchantments. 12 For they each cast down his rod, and they became serpents, but Aaron's rod swallowed up their rods. 13 And he hardened Pharaoh's heart and he did not listen to them, as the LORD had said.

14 And the LORD said to Moses, "Pharaoh's heart is hardened. He refuses to let the people go. 15 Go to Pharaoh in the morning, behold, he goes out to the water, and you shall stand by the river's brink to meet him. And the rod which was turned to a serpent you shall take in your hand. 16 And you shall say to him, 'The LORD God of the Hebrews has sent me to you, saying, "Let my people go so that they may serve me in the wilderness. And behold, until now you would not hear." 17 Thus says the LORD: "In this you shall know that I am the LORD: behold, I will smite with the rod that is in my hand upon the waters which are in the river, and they shall be turned to blood. 18 And the fish that are in the river shall die, and the river shall be offensive in smell, and the Egyptians shall loathe to drink the water from the river."'" 19 And the LORD spoke to Moses, "Say to Aaron, 'Take your rod and stretch out your hand upon the waters of Egypt, upon their streams, upon their rivers, upon their ponds, and upon all their pools of water, so that they may become blood and that there may be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone.'"

20 And Moses and Aaron did so, as the LORD commanded. And he lifted up the rod and smote the waters that were in the river in the sight of Pharaoh and in the sight of his servants. And all the waters that were in the river were turned into blood. 21 And the fish that were in the river died, and the river was offensive in smell, and the Egyptians could not drink the water from the river. And there was blood throughout all the land of Egypt. 22 And the magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments. And Pharaoh's heart was hardened, neither did he listen to them, as the LORD had said. 23 And Pharaoh turned and went into his house, neither did he regard this also. 24 And all the Egyptians dug all around the river for water to drink because they could not drink the water from the river. 25 And seven days were fulfilled after the LORD had smitten the river.

[#exo008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_Frogs are sent, 1-7. Pharaoh appeals to Moses, who by prayer takes them away, 8-15. The dust is turned into lice, which the magicians could not do, 16-19. The plague of flies, 20-24. Pharaoh inclines to let the people go, but yet is hardened, 25-32._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, "Go to Pharaoh and say to him, 'Thus says the LORD: "Let my people go so that they may serve me. 2 And if you refuse to let them go, behold, I will smite all your borders with frogs. 3 And the river shall bring forth frogs abundantly, which shall go up and come into your house, into your bed-chamber, upon your bed, into the house of your servants, upon your people, into your ovens, and into your kneading bowls. 4 And the frogs shall come upon you, upon your people, and upon all your servants."'" 5 And the LORD spoke to Moses, "Say to Aaron, 'Stretch forth your hand with your rod over the streams, over the rivers, and over the ponds, and cause frogs to come up on the land of Egypt.'" 6 And Aaron stretched his hand over the waters of Egypt, and the frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt. 7 And the magicians did so with their enchantments and brought up frogs upon the land of Egypt.

8 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron and said, "Entreat the LORD that he may take away the frogs from me and from my people, and I will let the people go so that they may do sacrifice to the LORD." 9 And Moses said to Pharaoh, "Glory over me in this: when shall I entreat for you, for your servants, and for your people to destroy the frogs from you and your houses so that they may remain in the river only?" 10 And he said, "Tomorrow." And he said, "May it be according to your word so that you may know that there is no one like the LORD our God. 11 And the frogs shall depart from you, from your houses, from your servants, and from your people. They shall remain in the river only."

12 And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh. And Moses cried to the LORD because of the frogs which he had brought against Pharaoh. 13 And the LORD did according to the word of Moses. And the frogs died out of the houses, out of the villages, and out of the fields. 14 And they gathered them into heaps, and the land was offensive in smell. 15 But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his heart and did not listen to them, as the LORD had said.

16 And the LORD said to Moses, "Say to Aaron, 'Stretch out your rod and smite the dust of the land so that it may become lice throughout all the land of Egypt.'" 17 And they did so. For Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod and smote the dust of the earth, and it became lice on man and on beast. All the dust of the land became lice throughout all the land of Egypt. 18 And the magicians did so with their enchantments to bring forth lice, but they could not. So there were lice upon man and upon beast. 19 Then the magicians said to Pharaoh, "This is the finger of God." But Pharaoh's heart was hardened and he did not listen to them, as the LORD had said.

20 And the LORD said to Moses, "Rise early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh (behold, he comes forth to the water) and say to him, 'Thus says the LORD: "Let my people go so that they may serve me. 21 Or else, if you will not let my people go, behold, I will send swarms of flies upon you, upon your servants, upon your people, and into your houses. And the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of swarms of flies, and also the ground on which they are. 22 And in that day I will set apart the land of Goshen, in which my people dwell, so that no swarms of flies shall be there, to the end you may know that I am the LORD in the midst of the earth. 23 And I will put a division between my people and your people. Tomorrow this sign shall be."'" 24 And the LORD did so. And there came a grievous swarm of flies into the house of Pharaoh, into his servants' houses, and into all the land of Egypt. The land was corrupted by reason of the swarm of flies.

25 And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron and said, "Go, sacrifice to your God in the land." 26 And Moses said, "It is not proper to do so, for we shall sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians to the LORD our God. Behold, if we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, will they not stone us? 27 We will go three days' journey into the wilderness and sacrifice to the LORD our God as he commands us." 28 And Pharaoh said, "I will let you go so that you may sacrifice to the LORD your God in the wilderness. Only you shall not go very far away. Entreat for me." 29 And Moses said, "Behold, I go out from you, and I will entreat the LORD so that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people tomorrow. But do not let Pharaoh deal deceitfully anymore in not letting the people go to sacrifice to the LORD."

30 And Moses went out from Pharaoh and entreated the LORD. 31 And the LORD did according to the word of Moses and removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people. Not one remained. 32 And Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, neither would he let the people go.

[#exo009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_The pestilence upon the beasts, 1-7. The plague of boils and sores, 8-12. The message of Moses about the hail, 13-21. The plague of hail, 22-26. Pharaoh appeals to Moses, but is still hardened, 27-35._

1 Then the LORD said to Moses, "Go to Pharaoh and tell him, 'Thus says the LORD God of the Hebrews: "Let my people go so that they may serve me. 2 For if you refuse to let them go and will hold them still, 3 Behold, the hand of the LORD is upon your livestock which are in the field, and also upon the horses, upon the donkeys, upon the camels, upon the oxen, and upon the sheep, and there shall be a very grievous pestilence. 4 And the LORD shall make a distinction between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt, and there shall nothing die of all that belongs to the children of Israel."'" 5 And the LORD appointed a set time, saying, "Tomorrow the LORD will do this thing in the land." 6 And the LORD did that thing on the next day, and all the livestock of Egypt died, but among the livestock of the children of Israel, not one died. 7 And Pharaoh sent, and behold, there was not one of the livestock of the Israelites dead. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened and he did not let the people go.

8 And the LORD said to Moses and to Aaron, "Take for yourselves handfuls of ashes from the furnace and let Moses sprinkle it toward heaven in the sight of Pharaoh. 9 And it shall become small dust in all the land of Egypt and shall be a boil breaking forth with sores upon man and upon beast throughout all the land of Egypt." 10 And they took ashes from the furnace and stood before Pharaoh, and Moses sprinkled it toward heaven, and it became a boil breaking forth with sores upon man and upon beast. 11 And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boil, for the boil was upon the magicians and upon all the Egyptians. 12 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he did not listen to them, as the LORD had spoken to Moses.

13 And the LORD said to Moses, "Rise early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh and say to him, 'Thus says the LORD God of the Hebrews: "Let my people go so that they may serve me. 14 For I will at this time send all my plagues upon your heart, upon your servants, and upon your people so that you may know that there is no one like me in all the earth. 15 For now I will stretch out my hand so that I may smite you and your people with pestilence, and you shall be cut off from the earth. [[exo009-016]]16 And indeed for this cause I have raised you up: to show in you my power so that my name may be declared throughout all the earth. 17 Still you exalt yourself against my people so that you will not let them go. 18 Behold, tomorrow about this time I will cause it to rain a very grievous hail such as has not been in Egypt since its foundation even until now. 19 Now therefore, send and gather your livestock and all that you have in the field, for upon every man and beast which is found in the field and is not brought home, the hail shall come down upon them and they shall die."'" 20 He who feared the word of the LORD among the servants of Pharaoh made his servants and his livestock flee into the houses. 21 And he who did not regard the word of the LORD left his servants and his livestock in the field.

22 And the LORD said to Moses, "Stretch forth your hand toward heaven so that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt upon man, upon beast, and upon every herb of the field throughout the land of Egypt." 23 And Moses stretched forth his rod toward heaven, and the LORD sent thunder and hail, and the fire ran along upon the ground, and the LORD rained hail upon the land of Egypt. 24 So there was hail, and fire mingled with the hail, very grievous, such as there had been none like it in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation. 25 And throughout all the land of Egypt the hail smote all that was in the field, both man and beast, and the hail smote every herb of the field and broke every tree of the field. 26 Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were, there was no hail.

27 And Pharaoh sent and called for Moses and Aaron and said to them, "I have sinned this time. The LORD is righteous, and I and my people are wicked. 28 Entreat the LORD (for it is enough) that there be no more mighty thunderings and hail, and I will let you go, and you shall stay no longer." 29 And Moses said to him, "As soon as I am gone out of the city, I will spread abroad my hands to the LORD, and the thunder shall cease, neither shall there be any more hail, so that you may know that the earth is the LORD'S. 30 But as for you and your servants, I know that you will not yet fear the LORD God." 31 And the flax and the barley were smitten, for the barley was budding and the flax was in bloom. 32 But the wheat and the spelt were not smitten, for they were not grown up. 33 And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh and spread abroad his hands to the LORD, and the thunders and hail ceased and the rain was not poured upon the earth. 34 And when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunders had ceased, he sinned yet again and hardened his heart—he and his servants. 35 And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, neither would he let the children of Israel go, as the LORD had spoken by Moses.

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.16]*: Quoted in xref:#rom009-017[Romans 9:17].

[#exo010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_God threatens to send locusts, 1-6. Pharaoh, moved by his servants, inclines to let the Israelites go, 7-11. The plague of the locusts, 12-15. Pharaoh entreats Moses, 16-20. The plague of darkness, 21-23. Pharaoh again entreats Moses, but yet is hardened, 24-29._

1 And the LORD said to Moses, "Go to Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the heart of his servants, so that I might show these signs of mine before him, 2 And that you may tell in the ears of your son and of your son's son what things I have wrought in Egypt, and my signs which I have done among them, so that you may know that I am the LORD."

3 And Moses and Aaron came to Pharaoh and said to him, "Thus says the LORD God of the Hebrews: 'How long will you refuse to humble yourself before me? Let my people go so that they may serve me. 4 Or else, if you refuse to let my people go, behold, tomorrow I will bring the locusts into your border. 5 And they shall cover the face of the earth so that no one will be able to see the earth. And they shall eat the remnant of that which has escaped, which remains to you from the hail, and shall eat every tree which grows for you out of the field. 6 And they shall fill your houses, the houses of all your servants, and the houses of all the Egyptians, which neither your fathers, nor your fathers' fathers have seen since the day that they were upon the earth to this day.'" And he turned himself and went out from Pharaoh. 7 And Pharaoh's servants said to him, "How long shall this man be a snare to us? Let the men go so that they may serve the LORD their God. Do you not yet know that Egypt is destroyed?" 8 And Moses and Aaron were brought back to Pharaoh, and he said to them, "Go, serve the LORD your God, but who are those who shall go?" 9 And Moses said, "We will go with our young and with our old, with our sons and with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds we will go, for we must hold a feast to the LORD." 10 And he said to them, "The LORD be with you if I let you go with your little ones. Look to it, for evil is before you. 11 Not so. Go now you who are men and serve the LORD, for that you desired." And they were driven out from Pharaoh's presence.

12 And the LORD said to Moses, "Stretch out your hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts so that they may come upon the land of Egypt and eat every herb of the land, even all that the hail has left." 13 And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and the LORD brought an east wind upon the land all that day and all that night. And when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts. 14 And the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt and rested in all the borders of Egypt. They were very grievous. Before them there had never been [so many] locusts as this, neither after them will there be such. 15 For they covered the face of the whole earth so that the land was darkened. And they ate every herb of the land and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left. And there did not remain any green thing on the trees, or in the herbs of the field, through all the land of Egypt. 16 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste and he said, "I have sinned against the LORD your God and against you. 17 Now therefore, forgive, I pray you, my sin only this once and entreat the LORD your God so that he may take away from me this death only." 18 And he went out from Pharaoh and entreated the LORD. 19 And the LORD turned a mighty strong west wind which took away the locusts and cast them into the Red Sea. There did not remain one locust in all the borders of Egypt. 20 But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart so that he would not let the children of Israel go.

21 And the LORD said to Moses, "Stretch out your hand toward heaven so that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even darkness which may be felt." 22 And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven, and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days. 23 They did not see one another, neither did any rise from his place for three days, but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings. 24 And Pharaoh called to Moses and said, "Go, serve the LORD. Only leave your flocks and your herds. Let your little ones also go with you." 25 And Moses said, "You must also give us sacrifices and burnt-offerings so that we may sacrifice to the LORD our God. 26 Our livestock shall also go with us. Not a hoof shall be left behind. For from them we will take some to serve the LORD our God, and we do not know with what we must serve the LORD until we get there." 27 But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let them go. 28 And Pharaoh said to him, "Depart from me. Take heed to yourself that you see my face no more. For in that day you see my face, you shall die." 29 And Moses said, "You have spoken well. I will never see your face again."

[#exo011%breakable]
=== Chapter 11

[.outline.text-center]
_God's message to the Israelites to borrow jewels from their neighbors, 1-3. Moses threatens Pharaoh with the death of the firstborn, 4-10._

1 And the LORD said to Moses, "Yet I will bring one more plague upon Pharaoh and upon Egypt. Afterward he will let you go from here. When he lets you go, he shall surely thrust you out from here altogether. 2 Speak now in the ears of the people, and let every man ask his neighbor and every woman her neighbor for jewels of silver and jewels of gold." 3 And the LORD gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh's servants, and in the sight of the people.

4 And Moses said, "Thus says the LORD: 'About midnight I will go out into the midst of Egypt. 5 And all the first-born in the land of Egypt shall die, from the first-born of Pharaoh who sits upon his throne, even to the first-born of the woman-servant who is behind the mill, and all the first-born of beasts. 6 And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there has been none like it, nor shall be like it anymore. 7 But against any of the children of Israel a dog shall not move his tongue, against man or beast, so that you may know how the LORD puts a difference between the Egyptians and Israel.' 8 And all these servants of yours shall come down to me and bow down themselves to me, saying, 'Depart—you and all the people who follow you.' And after that I will depart." And he went out from Pharaoh in a great anger.

9 And the LORD said to Moses, "Pharaoh will not listen to you so that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt." 10 And Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh, and the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart so that he would not let the children of Israel depart from his land.

[#exo012%breakable]
=== Chapter 12

[.outline.text-center]
_The beginning of the year is changed, 1, 2. The passover is instituted, 3-10. The import of the rite of the passover, 11-14. Unleavened bread, etc., 15-28. The firstborn are slain, 29, 30. The Israelites are driven out of the land, 31-36. They come to Succoth, 37-40. The time of their sojourning, 41, 42. The ordinance of the passover, 43-51._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying, 2 "This month shall be to you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you. 3 Speak to all the congregation of Israel, saying, 'On the tenth day of this month they shall each take for themselves a lamb, according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for a house. 4 And if the household is too small for the lamb, let him and his neighbor next to his house take it according to the number of the souls, each according to his eating you shall make your count for the lamb. 5 Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year. You shall take it from the sheep or from the goats, 6 And you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month. And the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening. 7 And they shall take some of the blood and strike it on the two side-posts and on the upper door-post of the houses in which they shall eat it. 8 And they shall eat the flesh in that night, roasted with fire. With unleavened bread and bitter herbs they shall eat it. 9 Do not eat any of it raw, nor boiled at all with water, but roasted with fire, its head with its legs and with its entrails. 10 And you shall let nothing of it remain until the morning. And that which remains of it until the morning you shall burn with fire. 11 And thus you shall eat it: with your loins girded, your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand. And you shall eat it in haste. It is the LORD'S passover. 12 For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night and will smite all the first-born in the land of Egypt, both man and beast. And against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment. I am the LORD. 13 And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where you are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt.

14 'And this day shall be to you for a memorial, and you shall keep it a feast to the LORD throughout your generations. You shall keep it a feast by an ordinance forever. 15 Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. Even the first day you shall put away leaven out of your houses. For whoever eats leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel. 16 And on the first day there shall be a holy convocation, and on the seventh day there shall be a holy convocation to you. No manner of work shall be done in them, except that which every man must eat. That only may be done by you. 17 And you shall observe the feast of unleavened bread, for on this same day I have brought your armies out of the land of Egypt. Therefore, you shall observe this day in your generations by an ordinance forever. 18 In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, you shall eat unleavened bread until the twenty-first day of the month at evening. 19 Seven days there shall be no leaven found in your houses. For whoever eats that which is leavened, even that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether he is a stranger, or born in the land. 20 You shall eat nothing leavened. In all your habitations you shall eat unleavened bread.'"

21 Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel and said to them, "Draw out and take a lamb, according to your families, and kill the passover. 22 And you shall take a bunch of hyssop, dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and strike the lintel and the two side-posts with the blood that is in the basin. And none of you shall go out of the door of his house until the morning. 23 For the LORD will pass through to smite the Egyptians. And when he sees the blood upon the lintel and on the two side-posts, the LORD will pass over the door and will not allow the destroyer to come in to your houses to smite you.

24 "And you shall observe this thing for an ordinance to you and to your sons forever. 25 And it shall come to pass, when you have come to the land which the LORD will give you, according as he has promised, that you shall keep this service. 26 And it shall come to pass, when your children say to you, 'What do you mean by this service?' 27 You shall say, 'It is the sacrifice of the LORD'S passover, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt when he smote the Egyptians and delivered our houses.'" And the people bowed the head and worshiped. 28 And the children of Israel went away and did as the LORD had commanded Moses and Aaron. And they did so.

29 And it came to pass, that at midnight the LORD smote all the first-born in the land of Egypt, from the first-born of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the first-born of the captive who was in the dungeon, and all the first-born of livestock. 30 And Pharaoh rose in the night—he, all his servants, and all the Egyptians—and there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where there was not one dead. 31 And he called for Moses and Aaron by night and said, "Arise, and depart from among my people, both you and the children of Israel, and go, serve the LORD as you have said. 32 Also take your flocks and your herds, as you have said, and be gone, and bless me also."

33 And the Egyptians were urgent upon the people so that they might send them out of the land in haste, for they said, "We are all dead men." 34 And the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading bowls being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders.

35 And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses. And they asked the Egyptians for jewels of silver, jewels of gold, and clothing. 36 And the LORD gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians so that they let them have such things as they requested. And they plundered the Egyptians.

37 And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth, about six hundred thousand on foot who were men, besides children. 38 And a mixed multitude went up also with them, and also flocks and herds, even a very large number of livestock. 39 And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought from Egypt, for it was not leavened because they were driven from Egypt and could not delay, neither had they prepared for themselves any food.

40 Now the sojourning of the children of Israel who dwelt in Egypt was four hundred and thirty years. 41 And it came to pass, at the end of the four hundred and thirty years, even the same day it came to pass, that all the hosts of the LORD departed from the land of Egypt.

42 It is a night to be much observed to the LORD for bringing them out from the land of Egypt. This is that night of the LORD to be observed by all the children of Israel in their generations.

43 And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, "This is the ordinance of the passover: no stranger shall eat it, 44 But every man's servant who is bought for money, when you have circumcised him, then he shall eat it. 45 A foreigner and a hired servant shall not eat it. 46 In one house it shall be eaten. You shall not carry anything of the flesh abroad out of the house, neither shall you break a bone of it. 47 All the congregation of Israel shall keep it. 48 And when a stranger sojourns with you and wishes to keep the passover to the LORD, let all his males be circumcised and then let him come near and keep it, and he shall be as one who is born in the land. For no uncircumcised person shall eat it. 49 One law shall be to him who is home-born and to the stranger who sojourns among you."

50 Thus all the children of Israel did as the LORD commanded Moses and Aaron. And they did so. 51 And it came to pass the same day, that the LORD brought the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.

[#exo013%breakable]
=== Chapter 13

[.outline.text-center]
_The firstborn are sanctified to God, 1, 2. The memorial of the passover is commanded, 3-10. The first-born of man and beast are set apart, 11-16. The Israelites go out of Egypt and carry Joseph's bones with them, 17-19. They come to Etham, 20. God guides them by a pillar of a cloud and a pillar of fire, 21, 22._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, [[exo013-002]]2 "Sanctify to me all the first-born. Whatever opens the womb among the children of Israel, both of man and of beast, it is mine."

3 And Moses said to the people, "Remember this day in which you came out from Egypt, out of the house of bondage, for by strength of hand the LORD brought you out from this place. There shall no leavened bread be eaten. 4 This day you came out in the month Abib. 5 And it shall be when the LORD brings you into the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, which he swore to your fathers to give you, a land flowing with milk and honey, that you shall keep this service in this month. 6 Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there shall be a feast to the LORD. 7 Unleavened bread shall be eaten seven days. And there shall no leavened bread be seen with you, neither shall there be leaven seen with you in all your quarters. 8 And you shall show your son in that day, saying, 'This is done because of that which the LORD did to me when I came forth out of Egypt.' 9 And it shall be for a sign to you upon your hand and for a memorial between your eyes so that the LORD'S law may be in your mouth. For with a strong hand the LORD has brought you out of Egypt. 10 You shall therefore keep this ordinance in its season from year to year.

11 "And it shall be when the LORD brings you into the land of the Canaanites, as he swore to you and to your fathers, and gives it to you, 12 That you shall set apart to the LORD all that opens the womb. And of every first-born that comes from a beast which you have, the males shall be the LORD'S. 13 And every first-born of a donkey you shall redeem with a lamb. And if you will not redeem it, then you shall break his neck. And all the first-born of man among your children you shall redeem. 14 And it shall be that your son shall ask you in time to come, saying, 'What is this?' Then you shall say to him, 'By strength of hand the LORD brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage. 15 And it came to pass, when Pharaoh would hardly let us go, that the LORD slew all the first-born in the land of Egypt, both the first-born of man and the first-born of beasts. Therefore, I sacrifice to the LORD all that opens the womb, being males, but all the first-born of my children I redeem.' 16 And it shall be for a token upon your hand and for frontlets between your eyes. For by strength of hand the LORD brought us forth out of Egypt."

17 And it came to pass, when Pharaoh had let the people go, that God did not lead them through the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near, for God said, "Lest perhaps the people repent when they see war and they return to Egypt." 18 But God led the people around through the way of the wilderness of the Red Sea. And the children of Israel went up armed from the land of Egypt. 19 And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for he had made the children of Israel swear, saying, "God will surely visit you and you shall carry up my bones from here with you." 20 And they took their journey from Succoth and encamped in Etham on the edge of the wilderness. 21 And the LORD went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud to lead them in the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, to go by day and night. 22 He did not take away the pillar of the cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night from before the people.

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.2]*: Quoted in xref:#luk002-023[Luke 2:23].

[#exo014%breakable]
=== Chapter 14

[.outline.text-center]
_God instructs the Israelites in their journey, 1-4. Pharaoh pursues after them, 5-9. The Israelites murmur, 10-12. Moses comforts them, 13, 14. God instructs Moses, 15-18. The cloud moves behind the camp, 19, 20. The Israelites pass through the Red Sea, which drowns the Egyptians, 21-31._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Speak to the children of Israel that they turn and encamp before Pi-hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea, over against Baal-zephon. Before it you shall encamp by the sea. 3 For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, 'They wander aimlessly in the land. The wilderness has shut them in.' 4 And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and he shall follow them. And I will be honored upon Pharaoh and upon all his host so that the Egyptians may know that I am the LORD." And they did so.

5 And it was told to the king of Egypt that the people fled. And the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people, and they said, "Why have we done this that we have let Israel go from serving us?" 6 And he made ready his chariot and took his people with him. 7 And he took six hundred chosen chariots and all the chariots of Egypt and captains over every one of them. 8 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he pursued the children of Israel. And the children of Israel went out with a high hand. 9 But the Egyptians pursued them (all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, his horsemen, and his army) and overtook them encamping by the sea, beside Pi-hahiroth, before Baal-zephon.

10 And when Pharaoh drew near, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and behold, the Egyptians marched after them, and they were greatly afraid. And the children of Israel cried to the LORD. 11 And they said to Moses, "Because there were no graves in Egypt, have you taken us away to die in the wilderness? Why have you dealt with us in this way to conduct us out of Egypt? 12 Is this not the word that we told you in Egypt, saying, 'Leave us alone so that we may serve the Egyptians'? For it had been better for us to serve the Egyptians than that we should die in the wilderness."

13 And Moses said to the people, "Do not fear. Stand still and see the salvation of the LORD which he will show to you today. For the Egyptians whom you have seen today, you shall see them again no more forever. 14 The LORD will fight for you, and you shall hold your peace."

15 And the LORD said to Moses, "Why do you cry to me? Speak to the children of Israel that they go forward. 16 But lift your rod and stretch out your hand over the sea and divide it. And the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea. 17 And I, behold I, will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and they shall follow them, and I will get myself honor upon Pharaoh and upon all his host, upon his chariots and upon his horsemen. 18 And the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD when I have gotten myself honor upon Pharaoh, upon his chariots, and upon his horsemen."

19 And the angel of God, who went before the camp of Israel, moved and went behind them. And the pillar of the cloud went from before their face and stood behind them. 20 And it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel. It was a cloud and darkness to them, but it gave light by night to these, so that one did not come near the other all the night.

21 And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the LORD caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided. 22 And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand and on their left. 23 And the Egyptians pursued and went in after them to the midst of the sea, even all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen. 24 And it came to pass, that in the morning-watch, the LORD looked to the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of the cloud and troubled the host of the Egyptians, 25 And took off their chariot-wheels and made them to move heavily, so that the Egyptians said, "Let us flee from the face of Israel, for the LORD fights for them against the Egyptians."

26 And the LORD said to Moses, "Stretch out your hand over the sea so that the waters may come back upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen." 27 And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to its strength when the morning appeared. And the Egyptians fled against it, but the LORD overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea. 28 And the waters returned and covered the chariots, the horsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them. There did not remain so much as one of them. 29 But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst of the sea, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand and on their left.

30 Thus the LORD saved Israel that day from the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the sea-shore. 31 And Israel saw that great work which the LORD did upon the Egyptians, and the people feared the LORD and believed the LORD and his servant Moses.

[#exo015%breakable]
=== Chapter 15

[.outline.text-center]
_The song of Moses, Miriam, and Israel on their deliverance, 1-21. The people want water in the wilderness, 22. The waters at Marah are bitter, they murmur, Moses prays, and sweetens the waters by God's direction, 23-26. They encamp at Elim, where there are twelve wells and seventy palm trees, 27._

1 Then Moses and the children of Israel sang this song to the LORD, and spoke, saying,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"I will sing to the LORD, for he has triumphed gloriously. [.linebr]#/# +
The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea.

|
|2 The LORD is my strength and song, [.linebr]#/# +
and he has become my salvation. [.linebr]#/# +
He is my God, and I will prepare him a habitation, [.linebr]#/# +
my father's God, and I will exalt him.

|
|3 The LORD is a man of war. [.linebr]#/# +
Yahweh is his name.

|
|4 "Pharaoh's chariots and his host he has cast into the sea. [.linebr]#/# +
His chosen captains are also drowned in the Red Sea.

|
|5 The depths have covered them. [.linebr]#/# +
They sunk to the bottom as a stone.

|
|6 Your right hand, O LORD, has become glorious in power. [.linebr]#/# +
Your right hand, O LORD, has dashed in pieces the enemy.

|
|7 And in the greatness of your excellence you have overthrown [.linebr]#/# +
those who rose up against you. [.linebr]#/# +
You sent forth your wrath, [.linebr]#/# +
which consumed them as stubble.

|
|8 And with the blast of your nostrils the waters were collected, [.linebr]#/# +
the floods stood upright as a heap, [.linebr]#/# +
and the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea.

|
|9 The enemy said, [.linebr]#/# +
'I will pursue and I will overtake. I will divide the plunder. [.linebr]#/# +
My lust shall be satisfied upon them. [.linebr]#/# +
I will draw my sword. My hand shall destroy them.'

|
|10 You blew with your wind, the sea covered them. [.linebr]#/# +
They sunk as lead in the mighty waters.

|
|11 "Who is like you, O LORD, among the gods? [.linebr]#/# +
Who is like you, glorious in holiness, [.linebr]#/# +
fearful in praises, doing wonders?

|
|12 You stretched out your right hand, [.linebr]#/# +
the earth swallowed them.

|
|13 "You in your mercy have led forth the people which you have redeemed. [.linebr]#/# +
You have guided them in your strength to your holy habitation.

|
|14 The people shall hear and be afraid. [.linebr]#/# +
Sorrow shall take hold upon the inhabitants of Palestina.

|
|15 Then the chiefs of Edom shall be amazed. [.linebr]#/# +
The mighty men of Moab, trembling shall take hold upon them. [.linebr]#/# +
All the inhabitants of Canaan shall melt away.

|
|16 Fear and dread shall fall upon them. [.linebr]#/# +
By the greatness of your arm they shall be as still as a stone [.linebr]#/# +
until your people pass over, O LORD, [.linebr]#/# +
until the people pass over, which you have purchased.

|
|17 You shall bring them in and plant them in the mountain of your inheritance, [.linebr]#/# +
in the place, O LORD, which you have made for you to dwell in, [.linebr]#/# +
in the sanctuary, O Lord, which your hands have established.

|
|18 The LORD shall reign forever and ever."
|===

19 For the horse of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with his horsemen into the sea, and the LORD brought back the waters of the sea upon them, but the children of Israel went on dry land in the midst of the sea.

20 And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a tambourine in her hand, and all the women went out after her with tambourines and with dances. 21 And Miriam answered them,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Sing to the LORD, for he has triumphed gloriously. [.linebr]#/# +
The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea."
|===

22 So Moses brought Israel from the Red Sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur. And they went three days in the wilderness and found no water. 23 And when they came to Marah, they could not drink the waters of Marah because they were bitter. Therefore, its name was called Marah. 24 And the people murmured against Moses, saying, "What shall we drink?" 25 And he cried to the LORD, and the LORD showed him a tree, which he cast into the waters, and the waters were made sweet. There he made for them a statute and an ordinance, and there he proved them, 26 And said, "If you will diligently listen to the voice of the LORD your God, do that which is right in his sight, and give ear to his commandments and keep all his statutes, I will put none of these diseases upon you which I have brought upon the Egyptians, for I am the LORD who heals you."

27 And they came to Elim, where there were twelve wells of water and seventy palm-trees. And they encamped there by the waters.

[#exo016%breakable]
=== Chapter 16

[.outline.text-center]
_The Israelites come to Sin and murmur for lack of bread, 1-3. God promises them bread and flesh from heaven, and they are rebuked, 4-12. Quails and manna are sent, 13-15. The ordering of manna, 16-24. It was not to be found on the sabbath, 25-31. An omer of it is preserved, 32-36._

1 And they took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came to the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departure from the land of Egypt. 2 And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. 3 And the children of Israel said to them, "O that we had died by the hand of the LORD in the land of Egypt when we sat by the flesh-pots and when we ate bread to the full, for you have brought us forth into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger."

4 Then the LORD said to Moses, "Behold, I will rain bread from heaven for you. And the people shall go out and gather a certain rate every day so that I may prove them, whether they will walk in my law, or not. 5 And it shall come to pass, that on the sixth day they shall prepare that which they bring in. And it shall be twice as much as they gather daily." 6 And Moses and Aaron said to all the children of Israel, "At evening you shall know that the LORD has brought you out from the land of Egypt, 7 And in the morning you shall see the glory of the LORD, for he hears your murmurings against the LORD. And what are we that you murmur against us?"

8 And Moses said, "This shall be when the LORD gives you flesh to eat in the evening and bread to the full in the morning, for the LORD hears your murmurings which you murmur against him. And what are we? Your murmurings are not against us, but against the LORD."

9 And Moses spoke to Aaron, "Say to all the congregation of the children of Israel, 'Come near before the LORD, for he has heard your murmurings.'" 10 And it came to pass, as Aaron spoke to the whole congregation of the children of Israel, that they looked toward the wilderness, and behold, the glory of the LORD appeared in the cloud. 11 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 12 "I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel. Speak to them, saying, 'At evening you shall eat flesh and in the morning you shall be filled with bread. Then you shall know that I am the LORD your God.'"

13 And it came to pass, that at evening the quails came up and covered the camp, and in the morning the dew lay around the host. 14 And when the dew that lay had gone up, behold, upon the face of the wilderness there lay a small round thing, as small as the hoar frost on the ground. 15 And when the children of Israel saw it, they said to one another, "It is manna," for they did not know what it was. And Moses said to them, "This is the bread which the LORD has given you to eat. 16 This is the thing which the LORD has commanded: 'Every man is to gather from it according to his eating. You shall take an omer for every man according to the number of your persons, each for those who are in his tent.'" 17 And the children of Israel did so and gathered, some more, some less. [[exo016-018]]18 And when they measured it with an omer, he who gathered much had nothing left over and he who gathered little had no lack. They each gathered according to his eating. 19 And Moses said, "No man is to let any of it remain until the morning." 20 But they did not listen to Moses. Some of them let it remain until the morning, and it bred worms and became offensive. And Moses was angry with them. 21 And they gathered it every morning, every man according to his eating. And when the sun became hot, it melted.

22 And it came to pass, that on the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for one man. And all the rulers of the congregation came and told Moses. 23 And he said to them, "This is that which the LORD has said, 'Tomorrow is the rest of the holy sabbath to the LORD. Bake that which you will bake today and boil that which you will boil. And that which is left over, lay up for yourselves to be kept until the morning.'" 24 And they laid it up until the morning as Moses ordered, and it did not putrefy, neither was there any worm therein. 25 And Moses said, "Eat that today, for today is a sabbath to the LORD. Today you will not find it in the field. 26 Six days you shall gather it, but on the seventh day, which is the sabbath, in it there will be none."

27 And it came to pass, that some of the people went out on the seventh day to gather and they found none. 28 And the LORD said to Moses, "How long do you [all] refuse to keep my commandments and my laws? 29 Behold, because the LORD has given you the sabbath, therefore he gives to you on the sixth day the bread for two days. Each of you abide in his place, let no man go out of his place on the seventh day." 30 So the people rested on the seventh day.

31 And the house of Israel called its name Manna. And it was like coriander-seed, white, and its taste was like wafers made with honey. 32 And Moses said, "This is the thing which the LORD commanded, 'Fill an omer with it to be kept for your generations so that they may see the bread with which I fed you in the wilderness when I brought you forth from the land of Egypt.'" 33 And Moses said to Aaron, "Take a pot and put an omer full of manna therein, and lay it up before the LORD to be kept for your generations." 34 As the LORD commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the Testimony to be kept. 35 And the children of Israel ate manna forty years until they came to a land inhabited. They ate manna until they came to the borders of the land of Canaan. [[exo016-036]]36 (Now an omer is the tenth part of an ephah.)

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.18]*: Quoted in xref:#sco008-015[2nd Corinthians 8:15].

[#exo017%breakable]
=== Chapter 17

[.outline.text-center]
_The people murmur for water at Rephidim, 1-4. God sends them for water to the rock in Horeb, 5, 6. The place is called Massah and Meribah, 7. Amalek is overcome by Joshua, while Moses holds up his hands with the rod of God, 8-13. Amalek is doomed to destruction; and Moses builds the altar, Yahweh is My Banner, 14-16._

1 And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from the wilderness of Sin after their journeys, according to the commandment of the LORD, and encamped in Rephidim. And there was no water for the people to drink. 2 Therefore, the people contended with Moses and said, "Give us water so that we may drink." And Moses said to them, "Why do you chide with me? Why do you test the LORD?" 3 And the people thirsted there for water. And the people murmured against Moses and said, "Why is this that you have brought us out of Egypt to kill us, our children, and our livestock with thirst?" 4 And Moses cried to the LORD, saying, "What shall I do to this people? They are almost ready to stone me." 5 And the LORD said to Moses, "Go on before the people and take with you some of the elders of Israel. And also take in your hand your rod with which you smote the river, and go. 6 Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock in Horeb. And you shall smite the rock, and water shall come out of it so that the people may drink." And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel. 7 And he called the name of the place Massah and Meribah because of the chiding of the children of Israel and because they tested the LORD, saying, "Is the LORD among us, or not?"

8 Then Amalek came and fought with Israel in Rephidim. 9 And Moses said to Joshua, "Choose for us men, and go out and fight with Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand." 10 So Joshua did as Moses had said to him and fought with Amalek. And Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill. 11 And it came to pass, when Moses held up his hand, that Israel prevailed. And when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed. 12 But Moses's hands were heavy, and they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat upon it. And Aaron and Hur supported his hands, one on one side and the other on the other side. And his hands were steady until the going down of the sun. 13 And Joshua completely defeated Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword.

14 And the LORD said to Moses, "Write this for a memorial in a book and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua, for I will utterly blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven." 15 And Moses built an altar and called its name Yahweh is My Banner, 16 For he said, "Because the LORD has sworn that the LORD will have war with Amalek from generation to generation."

[#exo018%breakable]
=== Chapter 18

[.outline.text-center]
_Jethro brings his wife and two sons to Moses, 1-6. Moses entertains him and relates the goodness of the Lord, 7, 8. Jethro rejoices, blesses God, and offers sacrifice, 9-12. He gives good counsel, which is accepted, 13-26. Jethro departs, 27._

1 When Jethro the priest of Midian, Moses's father-in-law, heard of all that God had done for Moses and for Israel his people, and that the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt, 2 Jethro, Moses's father-in-law, took Zipporah, Moses's wife, after he had sent her back, 3 And her two sons, of which the name of one was Gershom (for he said, "I have been a foreigner in a strange land"), 4 And the name of the other was Eliezer ("For the God of my father," he said, "was my help and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh").

5 And Jethro, Moses's father-in-law, came with his sons and his wife to Moses into the wilderness where he encamped at the mountain of God. 6 And he said to Moses, "I, your father-in-law Jethro, your wife, and her two sons with her have come to you." 7 And Moses went out to meet his father-in-law and did obeisance and kissed him. And they asked each other about their welfare and they came into the tent. 8 And Moses told his father-in-law all that the LORD had done to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, and all the travail that had come upon them by the way and how the LORD delivered them. 9 And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the LORD had done to Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians. 10 And Jethro said, "Blessed be the LORD who has delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of Pharaoh and who has delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians. 11 Now I know that the LORD is greater than all gods, for in the thing in which they dealt proudly, he was above them." 12 And Jethro, Moses's father-in-law, took a burnt-offering and sacrifices for God. And Aaron came with all the elders of Israel to eat bread with Moses's father-in-law before God.

13 And it came to pass on the next day, that Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood by Moses from the morning to the evening. 14 And when Moses's father-in-law saw all that he did for the people, he said, "What is this thing that you do for the people? Why do you sit yourself alone, and all the people stand by you from morning to evening?" 15 And Moses said to his father-in-law, "Because the people come to me to inquire of God. 16 When they have a matter, they come to me, and I judge between one and another and make them know the statutes of God and his laws."

17 And Moses's father-in-law said to him, "The thing that you do is not good. 18 You will surely wear away, both you and this people who is with you, for this thing is too heavy for you. You are not able to perform it yourself alone. 19 Listen now to my voice. I will give you counsel, and God shall be with you. You represent the people before God so that you may bring the causes to God, 20 And you shall teach them ordinances and laws and show them the way in which they must walk and the work that they must do. 21 Moreover, you shall provide out of all the people able men, those who fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness, and place those over them to be rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens. 22 And let them judge the people at all seasons. And it shall be, that every great matter they shall bring to you, but every small matter they shall judge. So it shall be easier for yourself and they shall bear the burden with you. 23 If you do this thing, and God commands you so, then you shall be able to endure, and all this people shall also go to their place in peace."

24 So Moses listened to the voice of his father-in-law and did all that he had said. 25 And Moses chose able men out of all Israel and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens. 26 And they judged the people at all seasons. The hard causes they brought to Moses, but every small matter they judged themselves. 27 And Moses let his father-in-law depart. And he went his way into his own land.

[#exo019%breakable]
=== Chapter 19

[.outline.text-center]
_The people arrive at Sinai, 1, 2. God's message by Moses to the people out of the mountain, 3-7. The people's answer returned again, 8. The people are prepared for the third day, for the giving of the law, 9-11. The mountain must not be touched, 12-15. The fearful presence of God upon the mountain, 16-25._

1 In the third month, when the children of Israel had gone forth from the land of Egypt, the same day they came into the wilderness of Sinai. 2 For they had departed from Rephidim and had come to the desert of Sinai and had pitched in the wilderness. And there Israel encamped before the mountain. 3 And Moses went up to God, and the LORD called to him from the mountain, saying, "Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel: 4 'You have seen what I did to the Egyptians and how I bore you on eagles' wings and brought you to myself. 5 Now therefore, if you will obey my voice indeed and keep my covenant, then you shall be a peculiar treasure to me above all people, for all the earth is mine. [[exo019-006]]6 And you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation.' These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel."

7 And Moses came and called for the elders of the people and laid before their faces all these words which the LORD commanded him. 8 And all the people answered together and said, "All that the LORD has spoken we will do." And Moses returned the words of the people to the LORD. 9 And the LORD said to Moses, "Behold, I come to you in a thick cloud so that the people may hear when I speak with you and believe you forever." And Moses told the words of the people to the LORD.

10 And the LORD said to Moses, "Go to the people and sanctify them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their clothes 11 And be ready for the third day. For on the third day the LORD will come down in the sight of all the people upon mount Sinai. 12 And you shall set bounds for the people all around, saying, 'Take heed to yourselves that you do not go up upon the mountain, or touch its border. Whoever touches the mountain shall surely be put to death. [[exo019-013]]13 No hand shall touch him, but he shall surely be stoned or shot through. Whether it be beast or man, it shall not live.' When the trumpet sounds long, they shall come up to the mountain." 14 And Moses went down from the mountain to the people and sanctified the people, and they washed their clothes. 15 And he said to the people, "Be ready for the third day. Do not come near your wives."

16 And it came to pass on the third day in the morning, that there were thunders and lightnings, a thick cloud upon the mountain, and the voice of the trumpet exceedingly loud so that all the people who were in the camp trembled. 17 And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God, and they stood at the nether part of the mountain.

18 And mount Sinai was altogether in a smoke because the LORD descended upon it in fire. And its smoke ascended as the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain trembled greatly. 19 And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long and grew louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God answered him by a voice. 20 And the LORD came down upon mount Sinai, on the top of the mountain. And the LORD called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up. 21 And the LORD said to Moses, "Go down, charge the people, lest they break through to the LORD to gaze and many of them perish. 22 And let the priests also who come near the LORD sanctify themselves, lest the LORD break forth upon them." 23 And Moses said to the LORD, "The people cannot come up to mount Sinai, for you charged us, saying, 'Set bounds around the mountain and sanctify it.'" 24 And the LORD said to him, "Go, descend, and then you shall come up—you and Aaron with you. But do not let the priests and the people break through to come up to the LORD, lest he break forth upon them." 25 So Moses went down to the people and spoke to them.

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.6]*: Quoted in xref:#fpe002-009[1st Peter 2:9]. *[v.13]*: Quoted in xref:#heb012-020[Hebrews 12:20].

[#exo020%breakable]
=== Chapter 20

[.outline.text-center]
_The Ten Commandments are spoken by Yahweh, 1-17. The people are afraid, but Moses comforts them, 18-20. Idolatry is forbidden, 21, 22. Of what sort the altar should be, 23-26._

1 And God spoke all these words, saying,

2 "I am the LORD your God who has brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.

3 "You shall have no other gods before me.

4 "You shall not make for yourself any engraved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. 5 You shall not bow down yourself to them, nor serve them, for I, the LORD your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, 6 And showing mercy to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.

7 "You shall not take the name of the LORD your God in vain, for the LORD will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.

8 "Remember the sabbath-day to keep it holy. 9 Six days you shall labor and do all your work, 10 But the seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD your God. In it you shall not do any work—you, your son, your daughter, your man-servant, your woman-servant, your livestock, nor your stranger who is within your gates. [[exo020-011]]11 For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day; therefore, the LORD blessed the sabbath-day and hallowed it.

[[exo020-012]]12 "Honor your father and your mother so that your days may be long upon the land which the LORD your God gives you.

[[exo020-013]]13 "You shall not kill.

[[exo020-014]]14 "You shall not commit adultery.

[[exo020-015]]15 "You shall not steal.

[[exo020-016]]16 "You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.

[[exo020-017]]17 "You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, his man-servant, his woman-servant, his ox, his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor's."

18 And all the people saw the thunderings, the lightnings, the noise of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking. And when the people saw it, they trembled and stood afar off. 19 And they said to Moses, "Speak with us and we will hear, but do not let God speak with us, lest we die." 20 And Moses said to the people, "Do not fear, for God has come to prove you, so that his fear may be before your faces and that you do not sin." 21 And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near to the thick darkness where God was.

22 And the LORD said to Moses, "Thus you shall say to the children of Israel: 'You have seen that I have talked with you from heaven. 23 You shall not make with me gods of silver, neither shall you make for yourselves gods of gold. 24 An altar of earth you shall make to me and shall sacrifice thereon your burnt-offerings, your peace-offerings, your sheep, and your oxen. In all places where I record my name I will come to you and I will bless you. 25 And if you will make me an altar of stone, you shall not build it of hewn stone, for if you lift up your tool upon it, you have polluted it. 26 You shall not go up by steps to my altar so that your nakedness is not discovered thereon.'"

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.11]*: Quoted in xref:#act014-015[Acts 14:15]; xref:#rev010-006[Revelation 10:6]. *[v.12]*: Quoted in xref:#mth015-004[Matthew 15:4], xref:#mth019-019[19:19]; xref:#mrk007-010[Mark 7:10], xref:#mrk010-019[10:19]; xref:#luk018-020[Luke 18:20]; xref:#eph006-002[Ephesians 6:2-3]. *[v.13]*: Quoted in xref:#mth005-021[Matthew 5:21], xref:#mth019-018[19:18]; xref:#mrk010-019[Mark 10:19]; xref:#luk018-020[Luke 18:20]; xref:#rom013-009[Romans 13:9]; xref:#jms002-011[James 2:11]. *[v.14]*: Quoted in xref:#mth005-027[Matthew 5:27], xref:#mth019-018[19:18]; xref:#mrk010-019[Mark 10:19]; xref:#luk018-020[Luke 18:20]; xref:#rom013-009[Romans 13:9]; xref:#jms002-011[James 2:11]. *[v.15]*: Quoted in xref:#mth019-018[Matthew 19:18]; xref:#mrk010-019[Mark 10:19]; xref:#luk018-020[Luke 18:20]; xref:#rom013-009[Romans 13:9]. *[v.16]*: Quoted in xref:#mth019-018[Matthew 19:18]; xref:#mrk010-019[Mark 10:19]; xref:#luk018-020[Luke 18:20]; xref:#rom013-009[Romans 13:9]. *[v.17]*: Quoted in xref:#rom007-007[Romans 7:7], xref:#rom013-009[13:9].

[#exo021%breakable]
=== Chapter 21

[.outline.text-center]
_Laws for men-servants, 1-4. For the servant whose ear is bored, 5, 6. For women-servants, 7-11. For manslaughter, 12-15. For those who steal men, 16. For cursers of parents, 17. For smiters, 18-21. For a hurt by chance, 22-27. For an ox that gores, 28-32. For him who is an occasion of harm, 33-36._

1 "Now these are the judgments which you shall set before them.

2 "If you buy a Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve. And in the seventh he shall depart free for nothing. 3 If he came in by himself, he shall depart by himself. If he was married, then his wife shall depart with him. 4 If his master has given him a wife and she has borne him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master's and he shall depart by himself. 5 And if the servant plainly says, 'I love my master, my wife, and my children. I will not depart free,' 6 Then his master shall bring him to the judges. He shall also bring him to the door, or to the door-post, and his master shall bore his ear through with an awl, and he shall serve him forever.

7 "And if a man sells his daughter to be a woman-servant, she shall not depart as the men-servants do. 8 If she shall not please her master who has betrothed her to himself, then he shall let her be redeemed. He shall have no power to sell her to a strange nation, seeing he has dealt deceitfully with her. 9 And if he has betrothed her to his son, he shall deal with her after the manner of daughters. 10 If he takes for himself another wife, her food, her clothing, and her duty of marriage he shall not diminish. 11 And if he does not perform these three to her, then she shall depart free without money.

12 "He who smites a man so that he dies shall surely be put to death. 13 And if the man did not lie in wait, but God has delivered him into his hand, then I will appoint you a place where he shall flee. 14 But if a man comes presumptuously upon his neighbor to slay him with guile, you shall take him from my altar so that he may die.

15 "And he who smites his father or his mother shall surely be put to death.

16 "And he who steals a man and sells him, or if he is found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.

[[exo021-017]]17 "And he who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death.

18 "And if men contend together, and one smites another with a stone or with his fist and he does not die but remains in his bed, 19 If he rises again and walks abroad upon his staff, then he who smote him shall be acquitted. Only he shall pay for the loss of his time and shall cause him to be thoroughly healed.

20 "And if a man smites his man-servant or his woman-servant with a rod and he dies under his hand, he shall surely be punished. 21 But if he survives a day or two, he shall not be punished, for he is his money.

22 "If men contend and hurt a woman with child so that her fruit departs from her, and yet no mischief follows, he shall surely surely punished according as the woman's husband will lay upon him. And he shall pay as the judges determine. 23 And if any mischief follows, then you shall give life for life, [[exo021-024]]24 Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, 25 Burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.

26 "And if a man smites the eye of his man-servant or the eye of his woman-servant so that it perishes, he shall let him go free for his eye's sake. 27 And if he smites out his man-servant's tooth or his woman-servant's tooth, he shall let him go free for his tooth's sake.

28 "If an ox gores a man or a woman so that they die, then the ox shall surely be stoned and its flesh shall not be eaten, but the owner of the ox shall be acquitted. 29 But if the ox was accustomed to push with its horn in time past, and it has been testified to its owner and he has not restrained it, and it has killed a man or a woman, the ox shall be stoned and its owner shall also be put to death. 30 If there is laid on him a sum of money, then he shall give for the ransom of his life whatever is laid upon him. 31 Whether it has gored a son or has gored a daughter, according to this judgment it shall be done to him. 32 If the ox gores a man-servant or woman-servant, he shall give to their master thirty shekels of silver and the ox shall be stoned.

33 "And if a man opens a pit, or if a man digs a pit, and does not cover it, and an ox or a donkey falls into it, 34 The owner of the pit shall make compensation and give money to its owner, and the dead beast shall be his.

35 "And if one man's ox hurts another's so that he dies, then they shall sell the live ox and divide its money. And they shall also divide the dead ox. 36 Or if it is known that the ox is one accustomed to gore in time past and his owner has not restrained him, he shall surely pay ox for ox, and the dead shall be his own."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.17]*: Quoted in xref:#mth015-004[Matthew 15:4]; xref:#mrk007-010[Mark 7:10]. *[v.24]*: Quoted in xref:#mth005-038[Matthew 5:38].

[#exo022%breakable]
=== Chapter 22

[.outline.text-center]
_Of theft, 1-4. Of damage, 5, 6. Of trespasses, 7-13. Of borrowing, 14, 15. Of fornication, 16, 17. Of witchcraft, 18. Of bestiality, 19. Of idolatry, 20. Of strangers, widows, and the fatherless, 21-24. Of usury, 25. Of pledges, 26, 27. Of reverence to magistrates, 28. Of the first fruits, 29, 30. Of torn flesh, 31._

1 "If a man steals an ox or a sheep and kills it or sells it, he shall restore five oxen for an ox and four sheep for a sheep.

2 "If a thief is found breaking through and is smitten so that he dies, there shall no blood be shed for him. 3 If the sun has risen upon him, there shall be blood shed for him, for he should make full restitution. If he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft. 4 If the theft is certainly found in his hand alive, whether an ox, donkey, or sheep, he shall restore double.

5 "If a man causes a field or vineyard to be eaten and puts in his beast and feeds in another man's field, from the best of his own field and from the best of his own vineyard he shall make restitution.

6 "If fire breaks out and catches in thorns and then stacks of grain, standing grain, or a field is consumed, he who kindled the fire shall surely make restitution.

7 "If a man delivers to his neighbor money or stuff to keep and it is stolen out of the man's house, if the thief is found, let him pay double. 8 If the thief is not found, then the master of the house shall be brought to the judges, to see whether he has put his hand to his neighbor's goods. 9 For all manner of trespass, whether it is for ox, for donkey, for sheep, for clothing, or for any manner of lost thing which another challenges to be his, the cause of both parties shall come before the judges. And he whom the judges condemn shall pay double to his neighbor.

10 "If a man delivers to his neighbor a donkey, an ox, a sheep, or any beast to keep and it dies, is hurt, or is driven away, no man seeing it, 11 Then an oath of the LORD shall be between them both that he has not put his hand to his neighbor's goods. And its owner shall accept it, and he shall not make restitution. 12 And if it is stolen from him, he shall make restitution to its owner. 13 If it is torn in pieces, then let him bring it for witness, and he shall not make good that which was torn.

14 "And if a man borrows anything from his neighbor and it is hurt or dies, its owner not being with it, he shall surely make it good. 15 But if its owner is with it, he shall not make it good. If it is a hired thing, it came for his hire.

16 "And if a man entices a virgin who is not betrothed and lies with her, he shall surely endow her to be his wife. 17 If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins.

18 "You shall not allow a witch to live.

19 "Whoever lies with a beast shall surely be put to death.

20 "He who sacrifices to any god, except to the LORD only, he shall be utterly destroyed.

21 "You shall neither vex a stranger, nor oppress him, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. 22 You shall not afflict any widow or fatherless child. 23 If you afflict them in any way, and they cry at all to me, I will surely hear their cry. 24 And my wrath shall wax hot and I will kill you with the sword. And your wives shall be widows and your children fatherless.

25 "If you lend money to any of my people who is poor by you, you shall not be to him as a creditor, neither shall you lay upon him usury. 26 If you ever take your neighbor's clothing to pledge, you shall deliver it to him by the setting of the sun. 27 For that is his only covering, it is his clothing for his skin. Wherein shall he sleep? And it shall come to pass, when he cries to me, that I will hear, for I am gracious.

[[exo022-028]]28 "You shall not revile God, nor curse the ruler of your people.

29 "You shall not delay to offer the first of your ripe fruits and of your liquors. The first-born of your sons you shall give to me. 30 You shall do likewise with your oxen and with your sheep. Seven days it shall be with his mother. On the eighth day you shall give it to me.

31 "And you shall be holy men to me; therefore, you shall not eat any flesh that is torn by beasts in the field. You shall cast it to the dogs."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.28]*: Quoted in xref:#act023-005[Acts 23:5].

[#exo023%breakable]
=== Chapter 23

[.outline.text-center]
_Of slander, false witness, and partiality, 1-3. Of charitableness, 4, 5. Of justice in judgment, 6, 7. Of taking bribes, 8. Of oppressing a stranger, 9. Of the year of rest, 10, 11. Of the sabbath, 12. Of idolatry, 13. Of the three feasts, 14-17. Of the blood and the fat of the sacrifice, 18, 19. An angel is promised, with a blessing, if they obey him, 20-33._

1 "You shall not raise a false report. Do not put your hand with the wicked to be an unrighteous witness. 2 You shall not follow a multitude to do evil, neither shall you speak in a cause to side with a multitude to wrest judgment, 3 Neither shall you favor a poor man in his cause.

4 "If you meet your enemy's ox or his donkey going astray, you shall surely bring it back to him again. 5 If you see the donkey of him who hates you lying under his burden, you shall forbear to leave him. You shall surely help him with it.

6 "You shall not wrest the judgment of your poor in his cause. 7 Keep far from a false matter and do not slay the innocent and righteous, for I will not justify the wicked.

8 "And you shall take no gift, for the gift blinds the wise and perverts the words of the righteous.

9 "Also you shall not oppress a stranger, for you know the heart of a stranger, seeing you were strangers in the land of Egypt.

10 "And six years you shall sow your land and shall gather in the fruits thereof. 11 But the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie still so that the poor of your people may eat. And what they leave, the beasts of the field shall eat. In like manner you shall deal with your vineyard and with your olive-grove.

12 "Six days you shall do your work and on the seventh day you shall rest so that your ox and your donkey may rest, and the son of your woman-servant and the stranger may be refreshed. 13 And in all things that I have said to you be circumspect. And make no mention of the names of other gods, neither let it be heard from your mouth.

14 "Three times you shall keep a feast to me in the year: 15 You shall keep the feast of unleavened bread (you shall eat unleavened bread seven days, as I commanded you, in the time appointed of the month Abib, for in it you came out from Egypt, and no one shall appear before me empty); 16 And the feast of harvest, the first-fruits of your labors, which you have sown in the field; and the feast of in-gathering, which is at the end of the year, when you have gathered in your labors out of the field. 17 Three times in the year all your males shall appear before the Lord GOD.

18 "You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread, neither shall the fat of my sacrifice remain until the morning.

19 "The first of the first-fruits of your land you shall bring into the house of the LORD your God. You shall not boil a kid in his mother's milk.

20 "Behold, I send an Angel before you to keep you in the way and to bring you into the place which I have prepared. 21 Beware of him and obey his voice. Do not provoke him, for he will not pardon your transgressions, for my name is in him. 22 But if you indeed obey his voice and do all that I speak, then I will be an enemy to your enemies and an adversary to your adversaries. 23 For my Angel shall go before you and bring you to the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, and I will cut them off. 24 You shall not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do after their works, but you shall utterly overthrow them and quite break down their images. 25 And you shall serve the LORD your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will take sickness away from the midst of you. 26 None shall miscarry their young, nor be barren in your land. I will complete the number of your days. 27 I will send my fear before you and will destroy all the people to whom you shall come, and I will make all your enemies turn their backs to you. 28 And I will send hornets before you, which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite from before you. 29 I will not drive them out from before you in one year, lest the land should become desolate and the beast of the field should multiply against you. 30 Little by little I will drive them out from before you until you have increased and inherit the land. 31 And I will set your bounds from the Red Sea even to the sea of the Philistines, and from the desert to the river, for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and you shall drive them out before you. 32 You shall make no covenant with them, nor with their gods. 33 They shall not dwell in your land, lest they make you to sin against me, for if you serve their gods, it will surely be a snare to you."

[#exo024%breakable]
=== Chapter 24

[.outline.text-center]
_Moses is called up onto the mountain, 1-2. The people promise obedience, 3. Moses builds an altar and twelve pillars, 4, 5. He sprinkles the blood of the covenant, 6-8. The glory of God appears, 9-13. Aaron and Hur have the charge of the people, 14. Moses goes onto the mountain, where he continues forty days and forty nights, 15-18._

1 And he said to Moses, "Come up to the LORD—you, Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel—and worship afar off. 2 And Moses alone shall come near the LORD, but they shall not come near, neither shall the people go up with him."

3 And Moses came and told the people all the words of the LORD and all the judgments. And all the people answered with one voice and said, "All the words which the LORD has said we will perform." 4 And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD, and rose early in the morning and built an altar under the hill and twelve pillars according to the twelve tribes of Israel. 5 And he sent young men of the children of Israel who offered burnt-offerings and sacrificed peace-offerings of oxen to the LORD. 6 And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar. 7 And he took the book of the covenant and read in the audience of the people. And they said, "All that the LORD has said we will do and be obedient." [[exo024-008]]8 And Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people and said, "Behold, the blood of the covenant which the LORD has made with you concerning all these words."

9 Then Moses went up, along with Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, 10 And they saw the God of Israel, and there was under his feet something like a paved work of a sapphire-stone and like the body of heaven in its clearness. 11 And upon the nobles of the children of Israel he did not lay his hand. They also saw God and ate and drank.

12 And the LORD said to Moses, "Come up to me on the mountain and be there, and I will give you tablets of stone with the law and the commandments which I have written so that you may teach them." 13 And Moses rose up with his minister Joshua, and Moses went up upon the mountain of God. 14 And he said to the elders, "Wait here for us until we come back to you. And behold, Aaron and Hur are with you. If any man has any matters to do, let him come to them." 15 And Moses went up upon the mountain, and a cloud covered the mountain. 16 And the glory of the LORD stayed upon mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days. And on the seventh day he called to Moses from the midst of the cloud. 17 And the sight of the glory of the LORD was like devouring fire on the top of the mountain in the eyes of the children of Israel. 18 And Moses went into the midst of the cloud and ascended the mountain. And Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights.

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.8]*: Quoted in xref:#heb009-020[Hebrews 9:20].

[#exo025%breakable]
=== Chapter 25

[.outline.text-center]
_What the Israelites were to offer for the formation of the tabernacle, 1-9. The form of the ark, 10-16. The mercy seat with the cherubim, 17-22. The table of show-bread with the furniture thereof, 23-30. The golden candlestick with the instruments thereof, 31-40._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Speak to the children of Israel that they bring me an offering. From every man who gives it willingly with his heart you shall take my offering. 3 And this is the offering which you shall take from them: gold, silver, brass, 4 Blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goats' hair, 5 Rams' skins dyed red, badgers' skins, shittim wood, 6 Oil for the light, spices for anointing oil and for sweet incense, 7 Onyx stones, and stones to be set in the ephod and in the breast-plate. 8 And let them make me a sanctuary so that I may dwell among them. 9 According to all that I show you after the pattern of the tabernacle and the pattern of all its instruments, even so you shall make it.

10 "And they shall make an ark of shittim wood. Two and a half cubits shall be its length, a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height. 11 And you shall overlay it with pure gold. Inside and outside you shall overlay it, and you shall make upon it a crown of gold around it. 12 And you shall cast four rings of gold for it and put them on its four corners, and two rings shall be on one side of it and two rings on the other side of it. 13 And you shall make staffs of shittim wood and overlay them with gold. 14 And you shall put the staffs into the rings by the sides of the ark so that the ark may be borne with them. 15 The staffs shall be in the rings of the ark. They shall not be taken from it. 16 And you shall put into the ark the testimony which I shall give you.

17 "And you shall make a mercy-seat of pure gold. Two and a half cubits shall be its length and a cubit and a half its breadth. 18 And you shall make two cherubim of gold, of beaten work you shall make them, at the two ends of the mercy-seat. 19 And make one cherub on one end and the other cherub on the other end, of one piece with the mercy-seat you shall make the cherubim at its two ends. 20 And the cherubim shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat with their wings, and their faces shall look to one another. Toward the mercy-seat the faces of the cherubim shall be. 21 And you shall put the mercy-seat above upon the ark. And in the ark you shall put the testimony that I shall give you. 22 And there I will meet with you, and I will speak with you from above the mercy-seat, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give you in commandment to the children of Israel.

23 "You shall also make a table of shittim wood. Its length shall be two cubits, its breadth a cubit, and its height a cubit and a half. 24 And you shall overlay it with pure gold and make for it a crown of gold around it. 25 And you shall make for it a border of a hand-breadth around it, and you shall make a golden crown for its border around it. 26 And you shall make for it four rings of gold and put the rings on the four corners that are on its four feet. 27 The rings shall be over against the border as holders for the staffs to bear the table. 28 And you shall make the staffs of shittim wood and overlay them with gold so that the table may be borne with them. 29 And you shall make its dishes, its spoons, its covers, and its bowls to cover it with. Of pure gold you shall make them. 30 And you shall set show-bread upon the table before me always.

31 "And you shall make a candlestick of pure gold. Of beaten work the candlestick shall be made. Its shaft, its branches, its bowls, its buds, and its flowers shall be of the same. 32 And six branches shall extend from its sides: three branches of the candlestick from one side and three branches of the candlestick from the other side. 33 Three bowls shall be made like almonds with a bud and a flower in one branch, and three bowls made like almonds in the other branch with a bud and a flower—likewise in the six branches that project from the candlestick. 34 And in the candlesticks there shall be four bowls made like almonds with their buds and their flowers. 35 And there shall be a bud under two branches of the same, and a bud under two branches of the same, and a bud under two branches of the same, according to the six branches that project from the candlestick. 36 Their buds and their branches shall be of the same. All of it shall be one beaten work of pure gold. 37 And you shall make its seven lamps. And they shall light its lamps so that they may give light over against it. 38 And its tongs and its snuff-dishes shall be of pure gold. 39 From a talent of pure gold he shall make it, with all these vessels. [[exo025-040]]40 And see that you make them after their pattern which was shown to you on the mountain."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.40]*: Quoted in xref:#heb008-005[Hebrews 8:5].

[#exo026%breakable]
=== Chapter 26

[.outline.text-center]
_The ten curtains of the tabernacle, 1-6. The eleven curtains of goats' hair, and the coverings of rams' and badgers' skins, 7-14. The boards of the tabernacle with their sockets and bars, 15-30. The veil for the ark, 31-36. The hanging for the door, 36, 37._

1 "Moreover, you shall make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined linen and blue, purple, and scarlet. With cherubim of skillful work you shall make them. 2 The length of one curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits and the breadth of one curtain four cubits, and each of the curtains shall have one measure. 3 Five curtains shall be coupled together to one another and the other five curtains shall be coupled to one another. 4 And you shall make loops of blue upon the edge of one curtain from the selvage in the coupling. And you shall do likewise in the uttermost edge of another curtain in the coupling of the second. 5 Fifty loops you shall make in the curtain and fifty loops you shall make in the edge of the curtain that is in the coupling of the second so that the loops may take hold of one another. 6 And you shall make fifty buttons of gold, and couple the curtains together with the buttons. And it shall be one tabernacle.

7 "And you shall make curtains of goats' hair to be a covering upon the tabernacle. Eleven curtains you shall make. 8 The length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits and the breadth of one curtain four cubits, and the eleven curtains shall be all of one measure. 9 And you shall couple five curtains by themselves and six curtains by themselves, and shall double the sixth curtain in the front of the tabernacle. 10 And you shall make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that is outermost in the coupling and fifty loops in the edge of the curtain which couples the second.

11 "And you shall make fifty buttons of brass, and put the buttons into the loops and couple the tent together so that it may be one. 12 And the remnant that remains of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remains, shall hang over the back of the tabernacle. 13 And a cubit on one side and a cubit on the other side of that which remains in the length of the curtains of the tent shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and on that side to cover it. 14 And you shall make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red and a covering above of badgers' skins.

15 "And you shall make boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood standing up. 16 Ten cubits shall be the length of a board and a cubit and a half shall be the breadth of one board. 17 There shall be two tenons in one board, set in order one against another. You shall do likewise for all the boards of the tabernacle. 18 And you shall make the boards for the tabernacle: twenty boards on the south side southward, 19 And you shall make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards, two sockets under one board for its two tenons and two sockets under another board for its two tenons; 20 And for the second side of the tabernacle on the north side there shall be twenty boards, 21 And their forty sockets of silver, two sockets under one board and two sockets under another board; 22 And for the sides of the tabernacle westward you shall make six boards. 23 And two boards you shall make for the corners of the tabernacle in the far side. 24 And they shall be coupled together beneath, and they shall be coupled together above its head to one ring. Thus it shall be for them both. They shall be for the two corners. 25 And they shall be eight boards and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets, two sockets under one board and two sockets under another board.

26 "And you shall make bars of shittim wood: five for the boards of one side of the tabernacle, 27 And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle for the two sides westward. 28 And the middle bar in the midst of the boards shall reach from end to end. 29 And you shall overlay the boards with gold and make their rings of gold as holders for the bars, and you shall overlay the bars with gold. 30 And you shall rear up the tabernacle according to the fashion thereof which was shown to you on the mountain.

31 "And you shall make a veil of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen of skillful work. With cherubim it shall be made. 32 And you shall hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold. Their hooks shall be of gold upon the four sockets of silver. 33 And you shall hang the veil under the buttons so that you may bring in there within the veil the ark of the testimony. And the veil shall be for you a separation between the holy place and the holy of holies. 34 And you shall put the mercy-seat upon the ark of the testimony in the holy of holies. 35 And you shall set the table outside the veil, and the candlestick over against the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south, and you shall put the table on the north side.

36 "And you shall make a hanging for the door of the tent of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with needle work. 37 And you shall make for the hanging five pillars of shittim wood and overlay them with gold, and their hooks shall be of gold. And you shall cast five sockets of brass for them."

[#exo027%breakable]
=== Chapter 27

[.outline.text-center]
_The altar of burnt offering with the vessels thereof, 1-8. The court of the tabernacle enclosed with hangings and pillars, 9-17. The measure of the court and the furniture of brass, 18, 19. The oil for the lamp, 20, 21._

1 "And you shall make an altar of shittim wood five cubits long and five cubits broad. The altar shall be square, and its height shall be three cubits. 2 And you shall make its horns upon the four corners thereof. Its horns shall be of the same, and you shall overlay it with brass. 3 And you shall make its pans to receive its ashes, its shovels, its basins, its flesh-hooks, and its fire-pans. All its vessels you shall make of brass. 4 And you shall make for it a grate of net-work of brass, and upon the net you shall make four brazen rings in its four corners. 5 And you shall put it under the compass of the altar beneath so that the net may be even to the midst of the altar. 6 And you shall make staffs for the altar, staffs of shittim wood, and overlay them with brass. 7 And the staffs shall be put into the rings, and the staffs shall be upon the two sides of the altar to bear it. 8 You shall make it hollow with boards. As it was shown to you on the mountain, so they shall make it.

9 "And you shall make the court of the tabernacle. For the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen of one hundred cubits long for one side. 10 And its twenty pillars and their twenty sockets shall be of brass. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver. 11 And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings of one hundred cubits long, and its twenty pillars and their twenty sockets of brass. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver. 12 And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits with their ten pillars and their ten sockets. 13 And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits. 14 The hangings of one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits with their three pillars and their three sockets. 15 And on the other side shall be hangings, fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and their three sockets. 16 And for the gate of the court there shall be a hanging of twenty cubits of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with needle-work, with their four pillars and their four sockets. 17 All the pillars around the court shall be filleted with silver with their hooks of silver and their sockets of brass. 18 The length of the court shall be one hundred cubits, the breadth fifty everywhere, and the height five cubits of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass. 19 All the vessels of the tabernacle in all the service thereof, all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court, shall be of brass.

20 "And you shall command the children of Israel that they bring the pure olive-oil beaten for the light to cause the lamp to always burn. 21 In the Tabernacle of the Congregation outside the veil, which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall order it from evening to morning before the LORD. It shall be a statute forever to their generations on behalf of the children of Israel."

[#exo028%breakable]
=== Chapter 28

[.outline.text-center]
_Aaron and his sons are set apart for the priest's office, 1. Holy garments are appointed, 2-5. The ephod and girdle, 6-14. The breast-plate with twelve precious stones, 15-29. The Urim and Thummim, 30. The robe of the ephod with pomegranates and bells, 31-35. The plate of the miter, 36-38. The embroidered coat, 39. The garments for Aaron's sons, 40-43._

1 "And bring to you Aaron your brother and his sons with him from among the children of Israel so that he may minister to me in the priest's office, even Aaron and Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar, Aaron's sons. 2 And you shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother, for glory and for beauty. 3 And you shall speak to all who are wise in heart, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, so that they may make Aaron's garments to consecrate him so that he may minister to me in the priest's office. 4 And these are the garments which they shall make: a breast-plate, an ephod, a robe, an embroidered coat, a miter, and a girdle. And they shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother and his sons so that he may minister to me in the priest's office. 5 And they shall take gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine linen.

[[exo028-006]]6 "And they shall make the ephod of gold, and of blue, purple, and scarlet, and of fine twined linen, with skillful work. 7 It shall have the two shoulder-pieces thereof joined at the two edges thereof, and thus it shall be joined together. 8 And the skillfully woven girdle of the ephod, which is upon it, shall be of the same, according to its work, even of gold, of blue, purple, and scarlet, and of fine twined linen. 9 And you shall take two onyx stones and engrave on them the names of the children of Israel: 10 Six of their names on one stone and the six names of the rest on the other stone according to their birth. 11 With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a signet, you shall engrave the two stones with the names of the children of Israel. You shall make them to be set in settings of gold. 12 And you shall put the two stones upon the shoulders of the ephod for stones of memorial to the children of Israel. And Aaron shall bear their names before the LORD upon his two shoulders for a memorial. 13 And you shall make settings of gold, 14 And two chains of pure gold at the ends. Of wreathed work you shall make them, and fasten the wreathed chains to the settings.

15 "And you shall make the breast-plate of judgment with skillful work. After the work of the ephod you shall make it. Of gold, of blue, purple, and scarlet, and of fine twined linen you shall make it. 16 It shall be square, being doubled. A span shall be its length and a span shall be its breadth. 17 And you shall set in it settings of stones, even four rows of stones. The first row shall be a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle, this shall be the first row. 18 And the second row shall be an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond. 19 And the third row a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst. 20 And the fourth row a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper. They shall be set in gold in their enclosings. 21 And the stones shall be with the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a signet, each with his name they shall be according to the twelve tribes. 22 And you shall make upon the breast-plate chains at the ends of wreathed work of pure gold. 23 And you shall make upon the breast-plate two rings of gold and shall put the two rings on the two ends of the breast-plate. 24 And you shall put the two wreathed chains of gold in the two rings which are on the ends of the breast-plate. 25 And the other two ends of the two wreathed chains you shall fasten in the two settings and put them on the shoulder-pieces of the ephod before it. 26 And you shall make two rings of gold, and you shall put them upon the two ends of the breast-plate in its border, which is in the side of the ephod inward. 27 And two other rings of gold you shall make and shall put them on the two sides of the ephod underneath, toward its forepart, over against the other coupling thereof, above the skillfully woven girdle of the ephod. 28 And they shall bind the breast-plate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue so that it may be above the skillfully woven girdle of the ephod and that the breast-plate does not come loose from the ephod. 29 And Aaron shall bear the names of the children of Israel in the breast-plate of judgment upon his heart when he enters into the holy place for a memorial before the LORD continually. 30 And you shall put in the breast-plate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim, and they shall be upon Aaron's heart when he goes in before the LORD. And Aaron shall bear the judgment of the children of Israel upon his heart before the LORD continually.

31 "And you shall make the robe of the ephod all of blue. 32 And there shall be a hole in its top in the midst of it. It shall have a binding of woven work around its hole, as the hole of a habergeon, so that it is not rent. 33 And beneath, upon its hem you shall make pomegranates of blue, of purple, and of scarlet around its hem and bells of gold between them around it: 34 A golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, upon the hem of the robe around it. 35 And it shall be upon Aaron to minister. And his sound shall be heard when he goes into the holy place before the LORD and when he comes out so that he may not die.

36 "And you shall make a plate of pure gold and engrave upon it, like the engravings of a signet, 'HOLINESS TO THE LORD.' 37 And you shall put it on a blue lace so that it may be upon the miter. Upon the front of the miter it shall be. 38 And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead so that Aaron may bear the iniquity of the holy things, which the children of Israel shall hallow in all their holy gifts. And it shall always be upon his forehead so that they may be accepted before the LORD.

39 "And you shall embroider the coat of fine linen, you shall make the miter of fine linen, and you shall make the girdle of needle-work.

40 "And for Aaron's sons you shall make coats, and you shall make for them girdles and you shall make for them caps for glory and for beauty. 41 And you shall put them upon Aaron your brother and on his sons with him and shall anoint them, consecrate them, and sanctify them so that they may minister to me in the priest's office. 42 And you shall make them linen breeches to cover their nakedness. From the loins even to the thighs they shall reach. 43 And they shall be upon Aaron and upon his sons when they enter into the Tabernacle of the Congregation or when they come near to the altar to minister in the holy place so that they do not bear iniquity and die. It shall be a statute forever to him and to his offspring after him."

[#exo029%breakable]
=== Chapter 29

[.outline.text-center]
_The sacrifice and ceremonies of consecrating the priests and the altar, 1-37. The continual burnt offering, 38-44. God's promise to dwell among the children of Israel, 45, 46._

1 "And this is the thing that you shall do to them to hallow them, to minister to me in the priest's office. Take one young bull and two rams without blemish, 2 And also unleavened bread, unleavened cakes tempered with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil. Of wheat flour you shall make them. 3 And you shall put them into one basket and bring them in the basket with the bull and the two rams. 4 And you shall bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation and shall wash them with water. 5 And you shall take the garments and put upon Aaron the coat, the robe of the ephod, the ephod, the breast-plate, and gird him with the skillfully woven girdle of the ephod. 6 And you shall put the miter upon his head and put the holy crown upon the miter. 7 Then you shall take the anointing oil and pour it upon his head and anoint him. 8 And you shall bring his sons and put coats upon them. 9 And you shall gird them with girdles (Aaron and his sons) and put the caps on them. And the priest's office shall be theirs for a perpetual statute. And you shall consecrate Aaron and his sons.

10 "And you shall cause a bull to be brought before the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the bull. 11 And you shall kill the bull before the LORD by the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 12 And you shall take some of the blood of the bull and put it upon the horns of the altar with your finger, and pour all the blood beside the bottom of the altar. 13 And you shall take all the fat that covers the inwards and the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys with the fat that is upon them, and burn them upon the altar. 14 But the flesh of the bull, his skin, and his dung you shall burn with fire outside the camp. It is a sin-offering.

15 "You shall also take one ram, and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the ram. 16 And you shall slay the ram and take his blood and sprinkle it around upon the altar. 17 And you shall cut the ram in pieces and wash his inwards and his legs and put them with his pieces and with his head. 18 And you shall burn the whole ram upon the altar. It is a burnt-offering to the LORD. It is a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to the LORD.

19 "And you shall take the other ram, and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the ram. 20 Then you shall kill the ram and take some of his blood and put it upon the tip of the right ear of Aaron, upon the tip of the right ear of his sons, upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood around upon the altar. 21 And you shall take some of the blood that is upon the altar and some of the anointing oil and sprinkle it upon Aaron, upon his garments, upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him. And he and his garments shall be hallowed, along with his sons and his sons' garments.

22 "Also you shall take from the ram the fat and the rump, the fat that covers the inwards and the lobe of the liver, the two kidneys and the fat that is upon them, the right shoulder (for it is a ram of consecration), 23 One loaf of bread, one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of the unleavened bread that is before the LORD. 24 And you shall put all in the hands of Aaron and in the hands of his sons, and shall wave them for a wave-offering before the LORD. 25 And you shall receive them from their hands and burn them upon the altar for a burnt-offering for a sweet savor before the LORD. It is an offering made by fire to the LORD.

26 "And you shall take the breast of the ram of Aaron's consecration and wave it for a wave-offering before the LORD, and it shall be your part. 27 And you shall sanctify the breast of the wave-offering and the shoulder of the heave-offering, which is waved and which is heaved up from the ram of the consecration, even from that which is for Aaron and from that which is for his sons. 28 And it shall be Aaron's and his sons' by a statute forever from the children of Israel, for it is a heave-offering. And it shall be a heave-offering from the children of Israel from the sacrifice of their peace-offerings, even their heave-offering to the LORD.

29 "And the holy garments of Aaron shall be his sons' after him, to be anointed therein and to be consecrated in them. 30 And that son, who is priest in his stead, shall put them on seven days when he comes into the Tabernacle of the Congregation to minister in the holy place.

31 "And you shall take the ram of the consecration and boil his flesh in the holy place. 32 And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram and the bread that is in the basket by the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 33 And they shall eat those things with which the atonement was made to consecrate and to sanctify them, but a stranger shall not eat of them because they are holy. 34 And if anything of the flesh of the consecration, or of the bread, remains until the morning, then you shall burn the remainder with fire. It shall not be eaten because it is holy.

35 "And thus you shall do to Aaron and to his sons according to all things which I have commanded you. Seven days you shall consecrate them. 36 And you shall offer every day a bull for a sin-offering for atonement. And you shall cleanse the altar when you have made an atonement for it and you shall anoint it to sanctify it. 37 Seven days you shall make an atonement for the altar and sanctify it, and it shall be an altar most holy. Whatever touches the altar shall be holy.

38 "Now this is that which you shall offer upon the altar: two lambs of the first year, day by day continually. 39 One lamb you shall offer in the morning and the other lamb you shall offer at evening. 40 And with one lamb [you shall offer] a tenth-portion of flour mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil and the fourth part of a hin of wine for a drink-offering. 41 And the other lamb you shall offer at evening, and shall do to it according to the food-offering of the morning and according to the drink-offering thereof for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to the LORD. 42 This shall be a continual burnt-offering throughout your generations at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the LORD, where I will meet you to speak there to you. 43 And there I will meet with the children of Israel, and the tabernacle shall be sanctified by my glory. 44 And I will sanctify the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the altar. I will also sanctify both Aaron and his sons to minister to me in the priest's office. 45 And I will dwell among the children of Israel and will be their God. 46 And they shall know that I am the LORD their God who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt so that I may dwell among them. I am the LORD their God."

[#exo030%breakable]
=== Chapter 30

[.outline.text-center]
_The altar of incense, 1-10. The ransom of souls, 11-16. The basin of brass, 17-21. The holy anointing oil, 22-33. The composition of the incense, 34-38._

1 "And you shall make an altar to burn incense upon. Of shittim wood you shall make it. 2 A cubit shall be its length and a cubit its breadth. It shall be square and two cubits shall be its height. Its horns shall be of the same. 3 And you shall overlay it with pure gold, its top and its sides all around and its horns, and you shall make for it a crown of gold all around. 4 And two golden rings you shall make for it under its crown by its two corners. Upon its two sides you shall make it and they shall be for places for the staffs to bear it with. 5 And you shall make the staffs of shittim wood and overlay them with gold. 6 And you shall put it before the veil that is by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy-seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with you. 7 And Aaron shall burn upon it sweet incense every morning. When he dresses the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it. 8 And when Aaron lights the lamps at evening, he shall burn incense upon it, a perpetual incense before the LORD throughout your generations. 9 You shall offer no strange incense upon it, nor burnt-sacrifice, nor food-offering, neither shall you pour drink-offering upon it. 10 And Aaron shall make an atonement upon its horns once in a year with the blood of the sin-offering of atonements. Once in a year he shall make atonement upon it throughout your generations. It is most holy to the LORD."

11 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 12 "When you take the sum of the children of Israel after their number, they shall each give a ransom for his soul to the LORD when you number them so that there may be no plague among them when you number them. 13 This they shall give, everyone who passes among those who are numbered: half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary (a shekel is twenty gerahs). A half shekel shall be the offering of the LORD. 14 Everyone who passes among those who are numbered from twenty years old and above shall give an offering to the LORD. 15 The rich shall not give more and the poor shall not give less than half a shekel when they give an offering to the LORD to make an atonement for your souls. 16 And you shall take the atonement-money of the children of Israel and shall appoint it for the service of the Tabernacle of the Congregation so that it may be a memorial to the children of Israel before the LORD to make an atonement for your souls."

17 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 18 "You shall also make a basin of brass, and its foot also of brass, to wash in. And you shall put it between the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the altar, and you shall put water therein. 19 For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet in it. 20 When they go into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, they shall wash with water so that they do not die, or when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn an offering made by fire to the LORD. 21 Thus they shall wash their hands and their feet so that they do not die. And it shall be a statute forever to them, even to him and to his offspring throughout their generations."

22 Moreover, the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 23 "Take also for yourself principal spices: of pure myrrh five hundred shekels, of sweet cinnamon half as much, even two hundred and fifty shekels, of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty shekels, 24 Of cassia five hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of olive-oil a hin. 25 And you shall make it an oil of holy ointment, an ointment compound after the art of the perfumer. It shall be a holy anointing oil. 26 And you shall anoint the Tabernacle of the Congregation with it, and also the ark of the testimony, 27 The table and all its vessels, the candlestick and its vessels, the altar of incense, 28 The altar of burnt-offering with all its vessels, and the basin and its foot. 29 And you shall sanctify them so that they may be most holy. Whatever touches them shall be holy. 30 And you shall anoint Aaron and his sons and consecrate them so that they may minister to me in the priest's office. 31 And you shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'This shall be a holy anointing oil to me throughout your generations. 32 Upon man's flesh it shall not be poured, neither shall you make any other like it after its composition. It is holy and it shall be holy to you. 33 Whoever compounds any like it, or whoever puts any of it upon a stranger, shall even be cut off from his people.'"

34 And the LORD said to Moses, "Take for yourself sweet spices: stacte, onycha, and galbanum, these sweet spices with pure frankincense (of each there shall be a similar weight). 35 And you shall make it a perfume, a confection after the art of the perfumer, tempered together, pure and holy. 36 And you shall beat some of it very small and put some of it before the testimony in the Tabernacle of the Congregation where I will meet with you. It shall be to you most holy. 37 And as for the perfume which you shall make, you shall not make for yourselves according to its composition. It shall be to you holy for the LORD. 38 Whoever makes any like it to be refreshed by it shall even be cut off from his people."

[#exo031%breakable]
=== Chapter 31

[.outline.text-center]
_Bezaleel and Aholiab are appointed and qualified for the work of the tabernacle, 1-11. The observation of the sabbath is again commanded, 12-17. Moses receives the two tables, 18._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Behold, I have called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, 3 And I have filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, in understanding, in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship, 4 To devise skillful works, to work in gold, in silver, in brass, 5 In cutting of stones to set them, and in carving of timber, to work in all manner of workmanship. 6 And I, behold, I have given with him Aholiab the son of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan. And in the hearts of all who are wise-hearted I have put wisdom so that they may make all that I have commanded you: 7 The Tabernacle of the Congregation, the ark of the testimony, the mercy-seat that is upon it, all the vessels of the tabernacle, 8 The table and its vessels, the pure candlestick with all its vessels, the altar of incense, 9 The altar of burnt-offering with all its vessels, the basin and its foot, 10 The clothes of service, the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments of his sons to minister in the priest's office, 11 And the anointing oil and sweet incense for the holy place. According to all that I have commanded you, they shall do."

12 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 13 "Speak also to the children of Israel, saying, 'Truly you shall keep my sabbaths, for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations so that you may know that I am the LORD who sanctifies you. 14 You shall keep the sabbath therefore, for it is holy to you. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death, for whoever does any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people. 15 Six days work may be done, but on the seventh is the sabbath of rest, holy to the LORD. Whoever does any work on the sabbath-day, he shall surely be put to death. 16 Therefore, the children of Israel shall keep the sabbath to observe the sabbath throughout their generations for a perpetual covenant. 17 It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever, for in six days the LORD made heaven and earth and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed.'"

18 And to Moses, when he had made an end of speaking with him upon mount Sinai, he gave two tablets of testimony, tablets of stone, written with the finger of God.

[#exo032%breakable]
=== Chapter 32

[.outline.text-center]
_The people, in the absence of Moses, cause Aaron to make a calf, 1-6. God informs Moses, who intercedes for Israel and prevails, 7-14. Moses comes down with the tablets, 15-18. He breaks them, 19. He destroys the calf, 20, 21. Aaron's excuse for himself, 22-24. Moses causes the idolaters to be slain, 25-29. He prays for the people, 30-35._

[[exo032-001]]1 And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountain, the people assembled themselves to Aaron and said to him, "Arise, make us gods which shall go before us. For as for this Moses, the man who brought us out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him." 2 And Aaron said to them, "Break off the golden earrings which are in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters and bring them to me." 3 And all the people broke off the golden earrings which were in their ears and brought them to Aaron. 4 And he received them at their hand and fashioned it with an engraving tool and made it a molten calf. And they said, "These are your gods, O Israel, which brought you out of the land of Egypt." 5 And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before it. And Aaron made proclamation and said, "Tomorrow is a feast to the LORD." [[exo032-006]]6 And they rose early on the next day and offered burnt-offerings and brought peace-offerings. And the people sat down to eat and to drink and rose up to play.

7 And the LORD said to Moses, "Go, go down, for your people, which you brought out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves. 8 They have turned aside quickly from the way which I commanded them. They have made themselves a molten calf, worshiped it, sacrificed to it, and said, 'These are your gods, O Israel, which have brought you out of the land of Egypt.'" 9 And the LORD said to Moses, "I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stiff-necked people. 10 Now therefore, leave me alone so that my wrath may wax hot against them and that I may consume them, and I will make of you a great nation."

11 And Moses implored the LORD his God and said, "LORD, why does your wrath wax hot against your people which you have brought forth from the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty hand? 12 Why should the Egyptians speak and say, 'For evil he brought them out to slay them in the mountains and to consume them from the face of the earth'? Turn from your fierce wrath and repent of this evil against your people. 13 Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel your servants, to whom you swore by your own self and said to them, 'I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have spoken of I will give to your offspring, and they shall inherit it forever.'" 14 And the LORD repented of the evil which he thought to do to his people.

15 And Moses turned and went down from the mountain, and the two tablets of the testimony were in his hand. The tablets were written on both sides—on one side and on the other they were written. 16 And the tablets were the work of God and the writing was the writing of God, engraved upon the tablets. 17 And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said to Moses, "There is a noise of war in the camp."

18 And he said, "It is not the voice of those who shout for mastery, neither is it the voice of those who cry for being overcome, but the noise of those who sing I hear."

19 And it came to pass as soon as he came near the camp, that he saw the calf and the dancing. And Moses's anger waxed hot, and he cast the tablets from his hands and broke them beneath the mountain. 20 And he took the calf which they had made, burnt it in the fire, ground it to powder, scattered it upon the water, and made the children of Israel drink it.

21 And Moses said to Aaron, "What did this people do to you that you have brought so great a sin upon them?" 22 And Aaron said, "Do not let the anger of my lord wax hot. You know the people that they are set on mischief. 23 For they said to me, 'Make us gods which shall go before us. For as for this Moses, the man who brought us out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.' 24 And I said to them, 'Whoever has any gold, let them break it off.' So they gave it to me. Then I cast it into the fire, and this calf came out."

25 And when Moses saw that the people were naked (for Aaron had made them naked to their shame, among their enemies), 26 Moses stood in the gate of the camp and said, "Who is on the LORD'S side? Let him come to me." And all the sons of Levi assembled themselves to him. 27 And he said to them, "Thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'Every man put his sword by his side and go in and out from gate to gate throughout the camp, and each slay his brother, each his companion, and each his neighbor.'" 28 And the children of Levi did according to the word of Moses. And there fell of the people that day about three thousand men. 29 For Moses had said, "Consecrate yourselves today to the LORD, even every man upon his son and upon his brother, so that he may bestow upon you a blessing this day."

30 And it came to pass on the next day, that Moses said to the people, "You have sinned a great sin. And now I will go up to the LORD. It may be that I shall make an atonement for your sin." 31 And Moses returned to the LORD and said, "Oh, this people has sinned a great sin and has made themselves gods of gold. 32 Yet now, if you will forgive their sin—and if not, blot me, I pray you, out of your book which you have written." 33 And the LORD said to Moses, "Whoever has sinned against me, I will blot him out of my book. 34 And now, go, lead the people to the place of which I have spoken to you. Behold, my angel shall go before you. Nevertheless, in the day when I visit, I will visit their sin upon them." 35 And the LORD afflicted the people because they made the calf, the one Aaron made.

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.1]*: Quoted in xref:#act007-040[Acts 7:40]. *[v.6]*: Quoted in xref:#fco010-007[1st Corinthians 10:7].

[#exo033%breakable]
=== Chapter 33

[.outline.text-center]
_The Lord refuses to go with the people as he had promised, 1-3. The people mourn upon hearing this, 4-6. The tabernacle is moved out of the camp, 7, 8. The Lord talks familiarly with Moses, 9-11. Moses prevails with God and desires to see his glory, 12-23._

1 And the LORD said to Moses, "Depart and go up from here—you and the people which you have conducted from the land of Egypt—to the land which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, 'To your offspring I will give it.' 2 And I will send an angel before you and will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite. 3 Go up to a land flowing with milk and honey. But I will not go up in the midst of you, for you are a stiff-necked people, lest I consume you in the way."

4 And when the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned, and no man put on his ornaments. 5 For the LORD had said to Moses, "Say to the children of Israel, 'You are a stiff-necked people. I will come up into the midst of you in a moment and consume you. And now, take off your ornaments from you so that I may know what to do to you.'" 6 And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments by the mount Horeb.

7 And Moses took the tabernacle and pitched it outside the camp far from the camp and called it the Tabernacle of the Congregation. And it came to pass, that everyone who sought the LORD went out to the Tabernacle of the Congregation, which was outside the camp. 8 And it came to pass when Moses went out to the tabernacle, that all the people rose, and each stood at his tent-door and watched Moses until he had gone into the tabernacle. 9 And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended and stood at the door of the tabernacle, and the LORD talked with Moses. 10 And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand at the tabernacle door, and all the people rose and worshiped, each in his tent-door. 11 And the LORD spoke to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. And he turned back into the camp, but his servant Joshua the son of Nun, a young man, did not depart out of the tabernacle.

12 And Moses said to the LORD, "Behold, you say to me, 'Bring up this people,' and you have not let me know whom you will send with me. Yet you have said, 'I know you by name and you have also found grace in my sight.' 13 Now therefore, I pray you, if I have found grace in your sight, show me now your way so that I may know you and that I may find grace in your sight. And consider that this nation is your people." 14 And [the LORD] said, "My presence shall go with you and I will give you rest." 15 And [Moses] said to him, "If your presence does not go with me, do not conduct us from here. 16 For wherein shall it be known here that I and your people have found grace in your sight? Is it not in your going with us? So we shall be separated—I and your people—from all the people who are upon the face of the earth."

17 And the LORD said to Moses, "I will do this thing also that you have spoken, for you have found grace in my sight and I know you by name." 18 And [Moses] said, "I implore you, show me your glory." [[exo033-019]]19 And [the LORD] said, "I will make all my goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of the LORD before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy." 20 And he said, "You cannot see my face, for no man shall see me and live." 21 And the LORD said, "Behold, there is a place by me, and you shall stand upon a rock. 22 And it shall come to pass, while my glory passes by, that I will put you in a cleft of the rock and will cover you with my hand while I pass by. 23 Then I will take away my hand and you shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.19]*: Quoted in xref:#rom009-015[Romans 9:15].

[#exo034%breakable]
=== Chapter 34

[.outline.text-center]
_The tablets are renewed, 1-4. The name of the LORD proclaimed, 5-7. Moses entreats God to go with them, 8, 9. God makes a covenant with them, repeating certain duties of the first tablet, 10-27. Moses, after forty days on the mount, comes down with the tablets, 28. His face shines and he covers it with a veil, 29-35._

1 And the LORD said to Moses, "Hew two tablets of stone like the first, and I will write upon these tablets the words that were on the first tablets which you broke. 2 And be ready in the morning and come up in the morning to mount Sinai and present yourself there to me on the top of the mountain. 3 And no man shall come up with you, neither let any man be seen throughout all the mountain, neither let the flocks nor herds feed before that mountain." 4 And he hewed two tablets of stone like the first. And Moses rose up early in the morning and went up to mount Sinai, as the LORD had commanded him, and took in his hand the two tablets of stone. 5 And the LORD descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the LORD. 6 And the LORD passed by before him and proclaimed, "The LORD, The LORD God, merciful and gracious, patient, and abundant in goodness and truth, 7 Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, and who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and upon the children's children to the third and to the fourth generation." 8 And Moses made haste and bowed his head toward the earth and worshiped. 9 And he said, "If now I have found grace in your sight, O Lord, let my Lord, I pray you, go among us (for it is a stiff-necked people) and pardon our iniquity and our sin and take us for your inheritance."

10 And he said, "Behold, I make a covenant. Before all your people I will do wonders such as have not been done in all the earth, nor in any nation. And all the people among which you are shall see the work of the LORD, for it is an awesome thing that I will do with you.

11 "Observe that which I command you this day. Behold, I drive out before you the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite. 12 Take heed to yourself, lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land where you go, lest it be for a snare in the midst of you. 13 But you shall destroy their altars, break their images, and cut down their groves. 14 For you shall worship no other god, for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God, 15 Lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and they go astray after their gods and do sacrifice to their gods, and one call you, and you eat of his sacrifice, 16 And you take some of their daughters for your sons, and their daughters go astray after their gods and make your sons go astray after their gods. 17 You shall make yourself no molten gods.

18 "The feast of unleavened bread you shall keep. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded you, in the time of the month Abib, for in the month Abib you came out from Egypt.

19 "Every first-born is mine, even every first-born among your livestock, whether ox or sheep, that is male. 20 But the first-born of a donkey you shall redeem with a lamb. And if you will not redeem him, then you shall break his neck. All the first-born of your sons you shall redeem. And no one shall appear before me empty.

21 "Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest. In time of plowing and in harvest you shall rest. 22 And you shall observe the feast of weeks, of the first-fruits of wheat-harvest, and the feast of in-gathering at the year's end. 23 Three times in the year all your male children shall appear before the Lord GOD, the God of Israel. 24 For I will drive out the nations before you and enlarge your borders. No man shall desire your land when you go up to appear before the LORD your God three times in the year.

25 "You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven, neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the passover be left until the morning.

26 "The first of the first-fruits of your land you shall bring to the house of the LORD your God. You shall not boil a kid in his mother's milk."

27 And the LORD said to Moses, "Write these words. For after the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel." 28 And he was there with the LORD forty days and forty nights. He neither ate bread nor drank water. And he wrote upon the tablets the words of the covenant, the Ten Commandments.

29 And it came to pass when Moses came down from mount Sinai (with the two tablets of testimony in Moses's hand, when he came down from the mountain) that Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone while he talked with him. 30 And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone, and they were afraid to come near him. 31 And Moses called to them, and Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned to him, and Moses talked with them. 32 And afterward all the children of Israel came near, and he gave them in commandment all that the LORD had spoken with him on mount Sinai. 33 And until Moses had finished speaking with them, he put a veil on his face. [[exo034-034]]34 But when Moses went in before the LORD to speak with him, he took the veil off until he came out. And he came out and spoke to the children of Israel that which he was commanded. 35 And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses's face shone. And Moses put the veil upon his face again until he went in to speak with him.

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.34]*: Quoted in xref:#sco003-016[2nd Corinthians 3:16].

[#exo035%breakable]
=== Chapter 35

[.outline.text-center]
_The sabbath, 1-3. The free gifts for the tabernacle, 4-19. The readiness of the people to offer, 20-29. Bezaleel and Aholiab are called to the work, 30-35._

1 And Moses assembled all the congregation of the children of Israel and said to them, "These are the words which the LORD has commanded, that you should do them. 2 'Six days work shall be done, but on the seventh day there shall be to you a holy day, a sabbath of rest to the LORD. Whoever does work therein shall be put to death. 3 You shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon the sabbath-day.'"

4 And Moses spoke to all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, "This is the thing which the LORD commanded, saying, 5 'Take from among you an offering to the LORD. Whoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it, an offering of the LORD: gold, silver, brass, 6 Blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goats' hair, 7 Rams' skins dyed red, badgers' skins, shittim wood, 8 Oil for the light, spices for anointing oil and for the sweet incense, 9 And onyx stones and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breast-plate.

10 'And every wise-hearted among you shall come and make all that the LORD has commanded: 11 The tabernacle with its tent, its covering, its buttons, its boards, its bars, its pillars, and its sockets; 12 The ark and its staffs, the mercy-seat, and the veil of the covering; 13 The table and its staffs, all its vessels, and the show-bread; 14 The candlestick for the light and its vessels, its lamps, and the oil for the light; 15 The incense-altar and its staffs; the anointing oil and the sweet incense; the hanging for the door at the entrance of the tabernacle; 16 The altar of burnt-offering with its brazen grate, its staffs, and all its vessels; the basin and its foot; 17 The hangings of the court, its pillars, their sockets, and the hanging for the door of the court; 18 The pins of the tabernacle, the pins of the court, and their cords; 19 And the clothes of service to do service in the holy place—the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments for his sons to minister in the priest's office.'"

20 And all the congregation of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses. 21 And they came, each whose heart excited him, and each whom his spirit made willing, and they brought the LORD'S offering to the work of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and for all his service and for the holy garments. 22 And they came, both men and women, as many as were willing-hearted, and brought bracelets, earrings, rings, tablets, all jewels of gold. And every man who offered, offered an offering of gold to the LORD. 23 And every man, with whom was found blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goats' hair, red skins of rams, and badgers' skins, brought them. 24 Everyone who offered an offering of silver and brass brought the LORD'S offering. And every man with whom was found shittim wood for any work of the service brought it. 25 And all the women who were wise-hearted spun with their hands and brought that which they had spun, both of blue, of purple, of scarlet, and of fine linen. 26 And all the women whose heart moved them in wisdom spun goats' hair. 27 And the rulers brought onyx stones and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breast-plate, 28 And spice and oil for the light, for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense. 29 The children of Israel brought a willing offering to the LORD, every man and woman, whose heart made them willing to bring for all manner of work, which the LORD had commanded to be made by the hand of Moses.

30 And Moses said to the children of Israel, "Behold, the LORD has called by name Bezaleel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah. 31 And he has filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, in understanding, in knowledge, in all manner of workmanship, 32 To devise skillful works, to work in gold, in silver, in brass, 33 In the cutting of stones to set them, and in carving of wood, to make any manner of skillful work. 34 And he has put in his heart that he may teach—both he and Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan. 35 He has filled them with wisdom of heart to work all manner of work of the engraver, of the skillful workmen, of the embroiderer, in blue, in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen, and of the weaver, even of those who do any work, and of those who devise skillful work."

[#exo036%breakable]
=== Chapter 36

[.outline.text-center]
_The offerings are delivered to the workmen, 1-3. The liberality of the people is restrained, 4-7. The curtains with cherubim, 8-13. The curtains of goats' hair, 14-18. The covering of skins, 19. The boards with their sockets, 20-30. The bars, 31-34. The veil, 35, 36. The hanging for the door, 37, 38._

1 "Then Bezaleel, Aholiab, and every wise-hearted man, in whom the LORD put wisdom and understanding to know how to work all manner of work for the service of the sanctuary, shall do according to all that the LORD has commanded."

2 And Moses called Bezaleel, Aholiab, and every wise-hearted man, in whose heart the LORD had put wisdom, even everyone whose heart excited him to come to the work to do it, 3 And they received from Moses all the offering which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary to make it. And they still brought to him voluntary-offerings every morning. 4 And all the wise men, who wrought all the work of the sanctuary, each came from his work which they made. 5 And they spoke to Moses, saying, "The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work which the LORD commanded to make." 6 And Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying, "Let neither man nor woman make any more work for the offering of the sanctuary." So the people were restrained from bringing. 7 For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to be done, with some left over.

8 And every wise-hearted man among those who wrought the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen, blue, purple, and scarlet. He made them with cherubim of skillful work. 9 The length of one curtain was twenty-eight cubits and the breadth of one curtain four cubits. The curtains were all of one size. 10 And he coupled the five curtains to one another and the other five curtains he coupled to one another. 11 And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain from the selvage in the coupling. He did likewise in the extremity of another curtain in the coupling of the second. 12 Fifty loops he made on one curtain and fifty loops he made on the edge of the curtain which was in the coupling of the second. The loops held one curtain to another. 13 And he made fifty buttons of gold and coupled the curtains to one another with the buttons. Thus it became one tabernacle.

14 And he made curtains of goats' hair for the tent over the tabernacle. He made them eleven curtains. 15 The length of one curtain was thirty cubits and four cubits was the breadth of one curtain. The eleven curtains were of one size. 16 And he coupled five curtains by themselves and six curtains by themselves. 17 And he made fifty loops upon the outermost edge of the curtain in the coupling and fifty loops he made upon the edge of the curtain which couples the second. 18 And he made fifty buttons of brass to couple the tent together so that it might be one. 19 And he made a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red and a covering of badgers' skins above that.

20 And he made boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood, standing up. 21 The length of a board was ten cubits and the breadth of a board one cubit and a half. 22 One board had two tenons, equally distant from one another. He did this for all the boards of the tabernacle. 23 And he made boards for the tabernacle. Twenty boards were for the south side southward. 24 And forty sockets of silver he made under the twenty boards, two sockets under one board for its two tenons and two sockets under another board for its two tenons. 25 And for the other side of the tabernacle which is toward the north corner, he made twenty boards, 26 With their forty sockets of silver, two sockets under one board and two sockets under another board. 27 And for the sides of the tabernacle westward he made six boards. 28 And he made two boards for the corners of the tabernacle in the rear. 29 And they were coupled beneath and coupled together at the head thereof to one ring. Thus he did to both of them for both the corners. 30 And there were eight boards, and their sockets were sixteen sockets of silver—under every board two sockets.

31 And he made bars of shittim wood: five for the boards of one side of the tabernacle, 32 And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle for the sides westward. 33 And he made the middle bar to shoot through the boards from one end to the other. 34 And he overlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings of gold to be holders for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.

35 And he made a veil of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen. With cherubim he made it of skillful work. 36 And he made for it four pillars of shittim wood and overlaid them with gold. Their hooks were of gold and he cast for them four sockets of silver. 37 And he made a hanging for the tabernacle door of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, of needle-work, 38 And its five pillars with their hooks. And he overlaid their capitals and their fillets with gold, but their five sockets were of brass.

[#exo037%breakable]
=== Chapter 37

[.outline.text-center]
_The ark and mercy seat with cherubim are made, 1-9. The table of show-bread with its vessels, 10-16. The candlestick with its lamps and instruments, 17-24. The altar of incense, 25-28. The anointing oil and sweet incense, 29._

1 And Bezaleel made the ark of shittim wood. Two and a half cubits was its length, a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height. 2 And he overlaid it with pure gold inside and outside and made a crown of gold for it all around. 3 And he cast for it four rings of gold to be set by its four corners, even two rings upon one side of it and two rings upon the other side of it. 4 And he made staffs of shittim wood and overlaid them with gold. 5 And he put the staffs into the rings by the sides of the ark to bear the ark. 6 And he made the mercy-seat of pure gold. Two and a half cubits was its length and one cubit and a half its breadth. 7 And he made two cherubim of gold, beaten out of one piece he made them, on the two ends of the mercy-seat: 8 One cherub on the end on this side and another cherub on the other end on that side. Of one piece with the mercy-seat he made the cherubim on its two ends. 9 And the cherubim spread out their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat with their wings, with their faces to one another, even toward the mercy-seat were the faces of the cherubim.

10 And he made the table of shittim wood. Two cubits was its length, a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height. 11 And he overlaid it with pure gold and made for it a crown of gold all around. 12 Also he made for it a border of a hand-breadth all around and made a crown of gold for its border all around. 13 And he cast for it four rings of gold and put the rings upon the four corners that were on its four feet. 14 Over against the border were the rings, the places for the staffs, to bear the table. 15 And he made the staffs of shittim wood to bear the table and overlaid them with gold. 16 And he made the vessels which were upon the table of pure gold: its dishes, its spoons, its bowls, and its covers to cover with.

17 And he made the candlestick of pure gold. Of beaten work he made the candlestick. Its shaft, its branch, its bowls, its buds, and its flowers were of the same. 18 And there were six branches proceeding from its sides: three branches of the candlestick from one side of it and three branches of the candlestick from the other side of it. 19 Three bowls were made after the fashion of almonds in one branch, a bud and a flower, and three bowls were made like almonds in another branch, a bud and a flower—likewise throughout the six branches proceeding from the candlestick. 20 And in the candlestick there were four bowls made like almonds, its buds and its flowers, 21 And a bud under two branches of the same, a bud under two branches of the same, and a bud under two branches of the same, according to the six branches proceeding from it. 22 Their buds and their branches were of the same. All of it was one beaten work of pure gold. 23 And he made its seven lamps, its snuffers, and its snuff-dishes of pure gold. 24 Of a talent of pure gold he made it and all its vessels.

25 And he made the incense-altar of shittim wood. Its length was a cubit and its breadth a cubit. It was square and two cubits was its height. Its horns were of the same. 26 And he overlaid it with pure gold, both its top and its sides all around and its horns. He also made for it a crown of gold all around. 27 And he made two rings of gold for it under its crown, by its two corners, upon its two sides, to be places for the staffs to bear it with. 28 And he made the staffs of shittim wood and overlaid them with gold. 29 And he made the holy anointing oil and the pure incense of sweet spices according to the work of the perfumer.

[#exo038%breakable]
=== Chapter 38

[.outline.text-center]
_The altar of burnt offering, 1-7. The basin of brass, 8. The court and its hangings, 9-20. The sum of what the people offered and the use to which it was applied, 21-31._

1 And he made the altar of burnt-offering of shittim wood. Five cubits was its length and five cubits its breadth. It was square and its height was three cubits. 2 And he made its horns on its four corners. Its horns were of the same and he overlaid it with brass. 3 And he made all the vessels of the altar: the pots, the shovels, the basins, the flesh-hooks, and the fire-pans. All its vessels he made of brass. 4 And he made for the altar a brazen grate of net-work under its ledge around it beneath, up to the middle of it. 5 And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grate of brass to be holders for the staffs. 6 And he made the staffs of shittim wood and overlaid them with brass. 7 And he put the staffs into the rings on the sides of the altar to bear it with. He made the altar hollow with boards.

8 And he made the basin of brass and its foot of brass from the mirrors of the women assembling, who assembled at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.

9 And he made the court. On the south side southward the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, one hundred cubits. 10 Their pillars were twenty and their brazen sockets twenty. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. 11 And for the north side, the hangings were one hundred cubits, their pillars were twenty and their sockets of brass twenty. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets were made of silver. 12 And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten and their sockets ten. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets were made of silver. 13 And for the east side eastward, fifty cubits. 14 The hangings of one side of the gate were fifteen cubits, their pillars three and their sockets three. 15 And for the other side of the court-gate, on this hand and that hand, were hangings of fifteen cubits, their pillars three and their sockets three. 16 All the hangings of the court all around were of fine twined linen. 17 And the sockets for the pillars were of brass. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets were made of silver. And the overlaying of their capitals were made of silver. And all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver. 18 And the hanging for the gate of the court was needle-work of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen. And twenty cubits was the length, and the height in the breadth was five cubits, corresponding to the hangings of the court. 19 And their pillars were four and their sockets of brass four. Their hooks were made of silver and also the overlaying of their capitals and their fillets were made of silver. 20 And all the pins of the tabernacle and of the court all around were of brass.

21 This is the sum of the tabernacle, even of the tabernacle of testimony, as it was counted, according to the commandment of Moses, for the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, son to Aaron the priest. 22 And Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that the LORD commanded Moses. 23 And with him was Aholiab, son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, a skillful workman, and an embroiderer in blue, in purple, in scarlet, and fine linen.

24 All the gold that was occupied for the work in all the work of the holy place, even the gold of the offering, was twenty-nine talents and seven hundred and thirty shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary. 25 And the silver of those who were numbered of the congregation was one hundred talents and one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, 26 A bekah for every man (that is, half a shekel, after the shekel of the sanctuary), for everyone who went to be numbered, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred and three thousand five hundred and fifty men. 27 And from the hundred talents of silver the sockets of the sanctuary and the sockets of the veil were cast—one hundred sockets from the hundred talents, a talent for a socket. 28 And from the one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels he made hooks for the pillars, overlaid their capitals, and filleted them. 29 And the brass of the offering was seventy talents and two thousand and four hundred shekels. 30 And with this he made the sockets to the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, the brazen altar, the brazen grate for it, all the vessels of the altar, 31 The sockets of the court all around, the sockets of the court gate, all the pins of the tabernacle, and all the pins of the court all around.

[#exo039%breakable]
=== Chapter 39

[.outline.text-center]
_The clothes of service and holy garments, 1. The ephod, 2-7. The breast-plate, 8-21. The robe of the ephod, 22-26. The coats, miter, and girdle of fine linen, 27-29. The plate of the holy crown, 30, 31. All is finished, reviewed, and approved by Moses, 32-43._

1 And from the blue, purple, and scarlet, they made clothes of service, to do service in the holy place, and made the holy garments for Aaron, as the LORD commanded Moses.

2 And he made the ephod of gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen. 3 And they beat the gold into thin plates and cut it into wires to work it in the blue, in the purple, in the scarlet, and in the fine linen with skillful work. 4 They made shoulder-pieces for it to couple it together. By the two edges it was coupled together. 5 And the skillfully woven girdle of his ephod that was upon it, was of the same, according to the work thereof, of gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, as the LORD commanded Moses.

6 And they wrought onyx stones enclosed in settings of gold, engraved as signets are engraved with the names of the children of Israel. 7 And he put them on the shoulders of the ephod so that they should be stones for a memorial to the children of Israel, as the LORD commanded Moses.

8 And he made the breast-plate of skillful work like the work of the ephod of gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen. 9 It was square. They made the breast-plate double. A span was its length and a span its breadth, being doubled. 10 And they set in it four rows of stones: the first row was a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle (this was the first row); 11 The second row, an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond; 12 The third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst; 13 And the fourth row, a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper. They were enclosed in settings of gold in their enclosings. 14 And the stones were according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a signet, each with his name, according to the twelve tribes. 15 And they made upon the breast-plate chains at the ends of wreathed work of pure gold. 16 And they made two settings of gold and two gold rings, and put the two rings in the two ends of the breast-plate. 17 And they put the two wreathed chains of gold in the two rings on the ends of the breast-plate. 18 And the two ends of the two wreathed chains they fastened in the two settings and put them on the shoulder-pieces of the ephod before it. 19 And they made two rings of gold and put them on the two ends of the breast-plate upon its border, which was on the side of the ephod inward. 20 And they made two other golden rings and put them on the two sides of the ephod underneath toward its forepart, over against the other coupling thereof, above the skillfully woven girdle of the ephod. 21 And they bound the breast-plate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue so that it might be above the skillfully woven girdle of the ephod and that the breast-plate might not come loose from the ephod, as the LORD commanded Moses.

22 And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue. 23 And there was a hole in the midst of the robe, as the hole of a habergeon, with a band around the hole so that it should not rend. 24 And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue, purple, scarlet, and twined linen. 25 And they made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between the pomegranates upon the hem of the robe, around between the pomegranates: 26 A bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, around the hem of the robe to minister in, as the LORD commanded Moses.

27 And they made coats of fine linen of woven work for Aaron and for his sons, 28 And a miter of fine linen, fancy caps of fine linen, linen breeches of fine twined linen, 29 And a girdle of fine twined linen and blue, purple, and scarlet, of needle-work, as the LORD commanded Moses.

30 And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and wrote upon it a writing like the engravings of a signet, 'HOLINESS TO THE LORD.' 31 And they tied to it a lace of blue to fasten it on high upon the miter, as the LORD commanded Moses.

32 Thus all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation was finished. And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses. And they did so. 33 And they brought the tabernacle to Moses: the tent, all its vessels, its buttons, its boards, its bars, its pillars, and its sockets; 34 The covering of rams' skins dyed red, the covering of badgers' skins, and the veil of the covering; 35 The ark of the testimony, its staffs, and the mercy-seat; 36 The table, all its vessels, and the show-bread; 37 The pure candlestick, its lamps, even the lamps to be set in order, all its vessels, and the oil for light; 38 The golden altar, the anointing oil, and the sweet incense; the hanging for the tabernacle door; 39 The brazen altar, its grate of brass, its staffs, and all its vessels; the basin and its foot; 40 The hangings of the court with its pillars and its sockets, the hanging for the court-gate with its cords and its pins, and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle for the tent of the congregation; 41 And the clothes of service to do service in the holy place, both the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments for his sons to minister in the priest's office. 42 According to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so the children of Israel made all the work. 43 And Moses looked upon all the work, and behold, they had done it. As the LORD had commanded, even so they had done it. And Moses blessed them.

[#exo040%breakable]
=== Chapter 40

[.outline.text-center]
_The tabernacle is commanded to be reared, anointed, and consecrated, 1-12. Aaron and his sons to be sanctified, 13-15. Moses performs all things accordingly, 16-33. A cloud covers the tabernacle, 34-38._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "On the first day of the first month you shall set up the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation. 3 And you shall put in it the ark of the testimony and cover the ark with the veil. 4 And you shall bring in the table and set in order the things that are to be set in order upon it. And you shall bring in the candlestick and light its lamps. 5 And you shall set the altar of gold for the incense before the ark of the testimony and set up the hanging for the door of the tabernacle. 6 And you shall set the altar of the burnt-offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation. 7 And you shall set the basin between the tent of the congregation and the altar and shall put water in it. 8 And you shall set up the court all around and hang up the hanging at the court-gate. 9 And you shall take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and all that is in it, and shall hallow it and all its vessels, and it shall be holy. 10 And you shall anoint the altar of the burnt-offering and all its vessels and sanctify the altar, and it shall be an altar most holy. 11 And you shall anoint the basin and its foot and sanctify it. 12 And you shall bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation and wash them with water. 13 And you shall put upon Aaron the holy garments, anoint him, and sanctify him so that he may minister to me in the priest's office. 14 And you shall bring his sons and clothe them with coats. 15 And you shall anoint them as you anointed their father so that they may minister to me in the priest's office, for their anointing shall surely be an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations." 16 Thus Moses did, according to all that the LORD commanded him. And he did so.

17 And it came to pass in the first month, in the second year, on the first day of the month, that the tabernacle was reared up. 18 And Moses reared up the tabernacle, fastened its sockets, set up its boards, put in its bars, and reared up its pillars. 19 And he spread abroad the tent over the tabernacle and put the covering of the tent above upon it, as the LORD commanded Moses. 20 And he took and put the testimony into the ark, set the staffs on the ark, and put the mercy-seat above upon the ark. 21 And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, set up the veil of the covering, and covered the ark of the testimony, as the LORD commanded Moses. 22 And he put the table in the tent of the congregation, upon the side of the tabernacle northward, outside the veil. 23 And he set the bread in order upon it before the LORD, as the LORD had commanded Moses. 24 And he put the candlestick in the tent of the congregation, over against the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward. 25 And he lit the lamps before the LORD, as the LORD commanded Moses. 26 And he put the golden altar in the tent of the congregation before the veil, 27 And he burnt sweet incense on it, as the LORD commanded Moses. 28 And he set up the hanging at the door of the tabernacle. 29 And he put the altar of burnt-offering by the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation, and offered upon it the burnt-offering and the food-offering, as the LORD commanded Moses. 30 And he set the basin between the tent of the congregation and the altar, and put water there to wash with. 31 And Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their feet in it. 32 When they went into the tent of the congregation and when they came near the altar, they washed, as the LORD commanded Moses. 33 And he reared up the court all around the tabernacle and the altar and set up the hanging of the court-gate. So Moses finished the work.

34 Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle. 35 And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation because the cloud stayed upon it and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle. 36 And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel went onward in all their journeys. 37 But if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not journey until the day that it was taken up. 38 So the cloud of the LORD was upon the tabernacle by day, and fire was on it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel throughout all their journeys.

[.text-center]
_[Tanach reading: go to xref:#leviticus[Leviticus]]_
