////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#ezekiel]
== The Word of the Lord to Ezekiel

*Ezekiel | Ἰεζεκιήλ | יחזקאל*

[#ezk001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_The time of Ezekiel's prophecy at Kebar, 1-3. His vision of four cherubim, 4-14; of the four wheels, 15-25; and of the glory of God, 26-28._

1 Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I was among the captives by the river of Kebar, that the heavens were opened and I saw visions of God. 2 On the fifth day of the month, which was the fifth year of king Jehoiachin's captivity, 3 The word of the LORD came expressly to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the Kebar River, and the hand of the LORD was there upon him.

4 And I looked, and behold, a whirlwind came out of the north, a great cloud, and a fire enfolding itself, and a brightness was around it, and from the midst of it something like the color of amber, from the midst of the fire. 5 Also from the midst of it came the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance: They had the likeness of a man, 6 And each had four faces and each had four wings. 7 And their feet were straight feet and the sole of their feet was like the sole of a calf's foot. And they sparkled like the color of burnished brass. 8 And they had the hands of a man under their wings on their four sides. And the four of them had their faces and their wings. 9 Their wings were joined to one another. They did not turn when they went. They each went straight forward. 10 As for the likeness of their faces, the four of them had the face of a man and the face of a lion on the right side. And the four of them had the face of an ox on the left side. The four of them also had the face of an eagle. 11 Thus were their faces. Their wings were stretched upward. Two wings of each were joined to one another and two covered their bodies. 12 And they each went straight forward. Where the spirit was to go, they went, and they did not turn when they went. 13 As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire and like the appearance of lamps. It went up and down among the living creatures. And the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning. 14 And the living creatures ran and returned as the appearance of a flash of lightning.

15 Now as I beheld the living creatures, there appeared one wheel upon the earth by the living creatures, with his four faces. 16 The appearance of the wheels and their work was like the color of a beryl. And the four of them had one likeness. And their appearance and their work was like a wheel in the middle of a wheel. 17 When they went, they went upon their four sides, and they did not return when they went. 18 As for their rings, they were so high that they were dreadful, and their rings were full of eyes around the four of them. 19 And when the living creatures went, the wheels went by them. And when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up. 20 Wherever the spirit was to go, they went, their spirit going there. And the wheels were lifted up over against them, for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels. 21 When those went, these went. And when those stood, these stood. And when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up over against them, for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels.

22 And over the head of the living creature there was the likeness of a firmament, like the gleam of awesome crystal, stretched forth over their heads above. 23 And under the firmament their wings were straight, one toward the other. Each had two which covered on this side, and each had two which covered on that side of their bodies. 24 And when they went, I heard the noise of their wings, like the noise of great waters, like the voice of the Almighty, a sound of tumult like the noise of a host. When they stood, they let down their wings. 25 And there was a voice from the firmament that was over their heads when they stood and had let down their wings.

26 And above the firmament that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne, like the appearance of a sapphire stone. And upon the likeness of the throne was a likeness with the appearance of a man above upon it. 27 And I saw something like the color of amber, like the appearance of fire around within it, from the appearance of his loins even upward, and from the appearance of his loins even downward, I saw something like the appearance of fire, and it had brightness on all sides. 28 Like the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness around. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the LORD. And when I saw it, I fell upon my face, and I heard the voice of someone speaking.

[#ezk002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_Ezekiel's commission, 1-5. His instruction, 6-8. The scroll of his heavy prophecy, 9, 10._

1 And he said to me, "Son of man, stand upon your feet, and I will speak to you." 2 And the Spirit entered into me when he spoke to me and set me upon my feet, and I heard him who spoke to me. 3 And he said to me, "Son of man, I send you to the children of Israel, to a rebellious nation that has rebelled against me. They and their fathers have transgressed against me, even to this very day, 4 For they are impudent children and obstinate in heart. I send you to them, and you shall say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD.' 5 And they, whether they will hear or whether they will forbear (for they are a rebellious house), yet shall know that there has been a prophet among them. 6 And you, son of man, do not be afraid of them, neither be afraid of their words, even though briers and thorns are with you and you dwell among scorpions. Do not be afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, though they are a rebellious house. 7 And you shall speak my words to them, whether they will hear or whether they will forbear, for they are most rebellious.

8 "But you, son of man, hear what I say to you. Do not be rebellious like that rebellious house. Open your mouth and eat that which I give you." 9 And when I looked, behold, a hand was sent to me, and behold, a scroll of a book was in it, 10 And he spread it before me. And it was written inside and outside. And there was written in it lamentations, mourning, and woe.

[#ezk003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_Ezekiel eats the scroll, 1-3. God encourages him, 4-14. God shows him the rule of prophecy, 15-21. God shuts and opens the prophet's mouth, 22-27._

1 Moreover, he said to me, "Son of man, eat what you find. Eat this scroll, and go, speak to the house of Israel." 2 So I opened my mouth, and he caused me to eat that scroll. 3 And he said to me, "Son of man, cause your belly to eat, and fill your bowels with this scroll that I give you." Then I ate it. And it was in my mouth as honey for sweetness.

4 And he said to me, "Son of man, depart, go to the house of Israel and speak with my words to them. 5 For you are not sent to a people of a strange speech and of a hard language, but to the house of Israel, 6 Nor to many people of a strange speech and of a hard language, whose words you cannot understand. Surely, if I sent you to them, they would listen to you. 7 But the house of Israel will not listen to you because they will not listen to me, for all the house of Israel are impudent and hard-hearted. 8 Behold, I have made your face strong against their faces and your forehead strong against their foreheads. 9 As an adamant harder than flint I have made your forehead. Do not fear them, neither be dismayed at their looks, though they are a rebellious house." 10 Moreover, he said to me, "Son of man, all my words that I shall speak to you receive in your heart and hear with your ears. 11 And depart, go to those who are in captivity, to the children of your people, and speak to them, and tell them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD,' whether they will hear or whether they will forbear."

12 Then the Spirit took me up, and I heard behind me a voice of a great rushing, saying, "Blessed be the glory of the LORD from his place." 13 I also heard the noise of the wings of the living creatures that touched one another, and the noise of the wheels over against them, and the noise of a great rushing. 14 So the Spirit lifted me up and took me away, and I went in bitterness, in the heat of my spirit, but the hand of the LORD was strong upon me. 15 Then I came to those who were in captivity at Tel-abib, who dwelt by the river of Kebar, and I sat where they sat and remained there astonished among them seven days.

16 And it came to pass at the end of seven days, that the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 17 "Son of man, I have made you a watchman to the house of Israel; therefore, hear the word from my mouth and give them warning from me. 18 When I say to the wicked, 'You shall surely die,' and you do not give him warning nor speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way to save his life, the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand. 19 Yet if you warn the wicked and he does not turn from his wickedness nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity, but you have delivered your soul. 20 Again, when a righteous man turns from his righteousness and commits iniquity, and I lay a stumbling-block before him, he shall die. Because you have not given him warning, he shall die in his sin, and his righteousness which he has done shall not be remembered, but his blood I will require at your hand. 21 Nevertheless, if you warn the righteous man that the righteous are not to sin, and he does not sin, he shall surely live, because he was warned. You have also delivered your soul."

22 And the hand of the LORD was there upon me, and he said to me, "Arise, go forth into the plain, and I will there talk with you." 23 Then I arose and went forth into the plain, and behold, the glory of the LORD stood there, like the glory which I saw by the river of Kebar. And I fell on my face. 24 Then the Spirit entered into me, set me upon my feet, and spoke with me, and said to me, "Go, shut yourself within your house. 25 But you, O son of man, behold, they shall put ropes upon you and shall bind you with them, and you shall not go out among them. 26 And I will make your tongue cleave to the roof of your mouth so that you shall be mute and shall not be to them a reprover, for they are a rebellious house. 27 But when I speak with you, I will open your mouth, and you shall say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD.' He who hears, let him hear, and he who forbears, let him forbear, for they are a rebellious house."

[#ezk004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_Under the type of a siege is shown the time from the defection of Jeroboam to the captivity, 1-8. By the provision of the siege is shown the hardness of the famine, 9-17._

1 "You also, son of man, take a tile and lay it before you, and portray the city upon it, even Jerusalem. 2 And lay siege against it, build a fort against it, cast a siege-mound against it, set the camp against it, and set battering rams against it on every side. 3 Moreover, take an iron pan and set it for a wall of iron between you and the city. And set your face against it so that it shall be besieged, and then lay siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel.

4 "Lie upon your left side and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel upon it. According to the number of the days that you lie upon it you shall bear their iniquity. 5 For I have laid upon you the years of their iniquity, according to the number of the days, three hundred and ninety days. Thus you shall bear the iniquity of the house of Israel. 6 And when you have accomplished them, lie again on your right side, and you shall bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty days. I have appointed you each day for a year. 7 Therefore, you shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem, and your arm shall be uncovered, and you shall prophesy against it. 8 And behold, I will put ropes upon you, and you shall not turn yourself from one side to another until you have ended the days of your siege.

9 "Also take wheat, barley, beans, lentils, millet, and spelt, put them in one vessel, and make yourself bread from them. According to the number of the days that you shall lie upon your side, three hundred and ninety days, you shall eat it. 10 And your food which you shall eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day. From time to time you shall eat it. 11 You shall also drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin. From time to time you shall drink. 12 And you shall eat it as barley cakes and bake it with human excrement in their sight." 13 And the LORD said, "Even thus the children of Israel shall eat their defiled bread among the Gentiles, where I will drive them." 14 Then I said, "Ah, Lord GOD! Behold, my soul has not been polluted. For from my youth even until now I have not eaten that which dies of itself, or is torn in pieces, neither has abominable flesh come into my mouth." 15 Then he said to me, "Behold, I have given you cow's dung for man's dung, and you shall prepare your bread over that." 16 Moreover, he said to me, "Son of man, behold, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem. And they shall eat bread by weight and with care, and they shall drink water by measure and with astonishment, 17 So that they may lack bread and water. And they will be astonished with one another and consume away for their iniquity."

[#ezk005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_Under the type of hair, 1-4, is shown the judgment of Jerusalem for their rebellion, 5-11; by famine, sword, and dispersion, 12-17._

1 "And you, son of man, take a sharp knife, take a barber's razor, and cause it to pass upon your head and upon your beard. Then take balances to weigh and divide the hair. 2 You shall burn with fire a third part in the midst of the city when the days of the siege are fulfilled. And you shall take a third part and smite around it with a knife. And a third part you shall scatter in the wind, and I will draw out a sword after them. 3 You shall also take from them a few in number and bind them in your skirts. 4 Then take from them again, and cast them into the midst of the fire and burn them in the fire, from which a fire shall come forth into all the house of Israel.

5 "Thus says the Lord GOD: 'This is Jerusalem. I have set it in the midst of the nations and countries that are around her. 6 And she has changed my judgments into wickedness more than the nations and my statutes more than the countries that are around her, for they have refused my judgments and my statutes. They have not walked in them.' 7 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: 'Because you multiplied more than the nations that are around you and have not walked in my statutes, neither have kept my judgments, neither have done according to the judgments of the nations that are around you,' 8 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: 'Behold, I, even I, am against you and will execute judgments in the midst of you in the sight of the nations. 9 And I will do in you that which I have not done, and the like to which I will not do anymore, because of all your abominations. 10 Therefore, the fathers shall eat the sons in the midst of you and the sons shall eat their fathers. And I will execute judgments in you and scatter the whole remnant of you into all the winds. 11 Therefore, as I live,' says the Lord GOD, 'surely, because you have defiled my sanctuary with all your detestable things and with all your abominations, therefore I will also diminish you. My eye shall not spare, neither will I have any pity. 12 A third part of you shall die with the pestilence, and with famine they shall be consumed in the midst of you. And a third part shall fall by the sword around you. And I will scatter a third part into all the winds and draw out a sword after them.

13 'Thus my anger shall be accomplished, and I will cause my fury to rest upon them and I will be comforted. And they shall know that I, the LORD, have spoken it in my zeal when I have accomplished my fury in them. 14 Moreover, I will make you waste and a reproach among the nations that are around you in the sight of all who pass by. 15 So it shall be a reproach and a taunt, an instruction and an astonishment, to the nations that are around you when I execute judgments in you in anger and in fury and in furious rebukes. I, the LORD, have spoken it. 16 When I send upon them the evil arrows of famine, which shall be for their destruction and which I will send to destroy you, I will increase the famine upon you and will break your staff of bread. 17 Thus I will send upon you famine and evil beasts, and they shall bereave you. Pestilence and blood shall pass through you, and I will bring the sword upon you. I, the LORD, have spoken it.'"

[#ezk006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_The judgment of Israel for their idolatry, 1-7. A remnant shall be blessed, 8-10. The faithful are exhorted to lament their abominations and calamities, 11-14._

1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them, 3 And say, 'You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD. Thus says the Lord GOD to the mountains, to the hills, to the rivers, and to the valleys: "Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places. 4 And your altars shall be desolate, and your images shall be broken. And I will cast down your slain men before your idols. 5 And I will lay the dead carcasses of the children of Israel before their idols. And I will scatter your bones around your altars. 6 In all your dwelling-places the cities shall be laid waste and the high places shall be desolate, so that your altars may be laid waste and made desolate, your idols may be broken and cease, your images may be cut down, and your works may be abolished. 7 And the slain shall fall in the midst of you, and you shall know that I am the LORD.

8 "Yet I will leave a remnant so that you may have some who shall escape the sword among the nations when you are scattered through the countries. 9 And those of you who escape shall remember me among the nations where they shall be carried captives, because I am broken with their apostate heart, which has departed from me, and with their eyes which go astray after their idols. And they shall loathe themselves for the evils which they have committed in all their abominations. 10 And they shall know that I am the LORD, and that I have not said in vain that I would do this evil to them."'

11 "Thus says the Lord GOD: 'Smite with your hand, stamp with your foot, and say, "Alas," because of all the evil abominations of the house of Israel. For they shall fall by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence. 12 He who is far off shall die by the pestilence. And he who is near shall fall by the sword. And he who remains and is besieged shall die by the famine. Thus I will accomplish my fury upon them. 13 Then you shall know that I am the LORD, when their slain men are among their idols all around their altars, upon every high hill, on all the tops of the mountains, under every green tree, and under every thick oak, the place where they offered sweet savor to all their idols. 14 Thus I will stretch out my hand upon them and make the land desolate, even more desolate than the wilderness toward Diblath, in all their habitations. And they shall know that I am the LORD.'"

[#ezk007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_The final desolation of Israel, 1-15. The mournful repentance of those who escape, 16-19. The enemies defile the sanctuary because of the Israelites' abominations, 20-22. Under the type of a chain is shown the miserable captivity of all orders of men, 23-27._

1 Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Also, son of man, thus says the Lord GOD to the land of Israel: 'An end, the end has come upon the four corners of the land. 3 Now the end has come upon you, and I will send my anger upon you. I will judge you according to your ways and recompense upon you all your abominations. 4 And my eye shall not spare you, neither will I have pity. But I will recompense your ways upon you, and your abominations shall be in the midst of you. And you shall know that I am the LORD.'

5 "Thus says the Lord GOD: 'An evil, a single evil, behold, has come. 6 An end has come. The end has come. It watches for you. Behold, it has come. 7 The morning has come upon you, O you who dwell in the land. The time has come. The day of trouble is near, and not of joyful shouting upon the mountains. 8 Now I will shortly pour out my fury upon you and accomplish my anger upon you. And I will judge you according to your ways and will recompense you for all your abominations. 9 And my eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity. I will recompense you according to your ways and your abominations that are in the midst of you. And you shall know that I am the LORD who smites.

10 'Behold the day, behold, it has come. The morning has gone forth. The rod has blossomed, pride has budded. 11 Violence has risen into a rod of wickedness. None of them shall remain—none of their multitude, nor of their wealth. There shall be no wailing for them. 12 The time has come. The day draws near. Do not let the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn, for wrath is upon all the multitude thereof. 13 For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although they are still alive, for the vision is concerning the whole multitude thereof, which shall not return, neither shall any strengthen himself in the iniquity of his life.

14 'They have blown the trumpet, even to make all ready, but no one goes to the battle, for my wrath is upon all the multitude thereof. 15 The sword is outside, and the pestilence and the famine inside. He who is in the field shall die with the sword, and he who is in the city, famine and pestilence shall devour him. 16 But those of them who escape shall escape and be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them mourning, each for his iniquity. 17 All hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be weak as water. 18 They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth, horror shall cover them, shame shall be upon all faces, and baldness upon all their heads. 19 They shall cast their silver in the streets, and their gold shall be as an unclean thing. Their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the LORD. They shall not satisfy their souls nor fill their bowels because it is the stumbling-block of their iniquity.

20 'As for the beauty of his ornament, he set it in majesty, but they made the images of their abominations and of their detestable things therein; therefore, I have set it far from them. 21 And I will give it into the hands of the strangers for plunder and to the wicked of the earth for loot, and they shall pollute it. 22 My face I will also turn from them, and they shall pollute my secret place, for the robbers shall enter into it and defile it.

23 'Make a chain, for the land is full of bloody crimes and the city is full of violence. 24 Therefore, I will bring the worst of the heathen, and they shall possess their houses. I will also make the pomp of the strong to cease, and their holy places shall be defiled. 25 Destruction comes. They shall seek peace, but there shall be none. 26 Mischief shall come upon mischief and rumor shall be upon rumor. Then they shall seek a vision of the prophet, but the law shall perish from the priest and counsel from the elders. 27 The king shall mourn, and the prince shall be clothed with desolation, and the hands of the people of the land shall be troubled. I will do to them after their way, and according to their judgments I will judge them. And they shall know that I am the LORD.'"

[#ezk008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_Ezekiel, in a vision of God at Jerusalem, 1-4, is shown the image of jealousy, 5, 6; the chambers of imagery, 7-12; the mourners for Tammuz, 13-15; the worshipers toward the sun, 16. God's wrath for their idolatry, 17, 18._

1 And it came to pass in the sixth year, in the sixth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I sat in my house and the elders of Judah sat before me, that the hand of the Lord GOD fell there upon me. 2 Then I beheld, and behold a likeness that had the appearance of fire. From the appearance of his loins even downward was like fire, and from his loins even upward was like the appearance of brightness, like the color of amber. 3 And he put forth the form of a hand and took me by a lock of my head. And the Spirit lifted me up between the earth and the heaven and brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem, to the door of the inner gate that looks toward the north, where the seat of the image of jealousy was, which provokes to jealousy. 4 And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, according to the vision that I saw in the plain.

5 Then he said to me, "Son of man, lift up your eyes now toward the north." So I lifted up my eyes toward the north, and behold, northward at the gate of the altar, in the entry, was this image of jealousy. 6 He said furthermore to me, "Son of man, do you see what they do, even the great abominations that the house of Israel commits here, so that I should withdraw from my sanctuary? Yet again, you shall see even greater abominations."

7 And he brought me to the door of the court. And when I looked, behold a hole in the wall. 8 Then he said to me, "Son of man, now dig in the wall." And when I had dug in the wall, behold a door. 9 And he said to me, "Go in, and behold the wicked abominations that they do here." 10 So I went in and saw, and behold, every form of creeping animals and abominable beasts and all the idols of the house of Israel were portrayed around upon the wall. 11 And there stood before them seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, and in the midst of them stood Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan, each with his censer in his hand, and a thick cloud of incense went up. 12 Then he said to me, "Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel do in the dark, each in the chambers of his imagery? For they say, 'The LORD does not see us. The LORD has forsaken the earth.'" 13 He also said to me, "Yet again, you shall see greater abominations that they do."

14 Then he brought me to the door of the gate of the LORD'S house which was toward the north, and behold, women weeping for Tammuz sat there. 15 Then he said to me, "Have you seen this, O son of man? Yet again, you shall see greater abominations than these."

16 And he brought me into the inner court of the LORD'S house, and behold, at the door of the temple of the LORD, between the porch and the altar, were about twenty-five men with their backs toward the temple of the LORD and their faces toward the east, and they worshiped the sun toward the east. 17 Then he said to me, "Have you seen this, O son of man? Is it a light thing to the house of Judah that they commit the abominations which they commit here? For they have filled the land with violence and have returned to provoke me to anger. And behold, they put the branch to their nose. 18 Therefore, I will also deal in fury. My eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity. And though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, yet I will not hear them."

[#ezk009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_A vision, whereby is shown the preservation of some, 1-4; and the destruction of the rest, 5-7. God cannot be entreated for them, 8-11._

1 He also cried in my ears with a loud voice, saying, "Cause those who have charge over the city to draw near, even every man with his destroying weapon in his hand." 2 And behold, six men came from the way of the higher gate, which lies toward the north, and each with a slaughter-weapon in his hand. And one man among them was clothed with linen, with a writer's inkhorn by his side. And they went in and stood beside the brazen altar.

3 And the glory of the God of Israel had gone up from the cherub on which he was to the threshold of the house. And he called to the man clothed with linen who had the writer's inkhorn by his side, 4 And the LORD said to him, "Go through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark upon the foreheads of the men who sigh and who cry for all the abominations that are done in the midst of it." 5 And to the others he said in my hearing, "Go after him through the city and smite. Do not let your eye spare, neither have pity. 6 Utterly slay old and young, virgins, little children, and women, but do not come near any man upon whom the mark is. And begin at my sanctuary." Then they began at the elderly men who were before the house. 7 And he said to them, "Defile the house and fill the courts with the slain. Go forth." And they went forth and slew in the city. 8 And it came to pass, that while they were slaying them, I was left alone, and I fell upon my face and cried, and said, "Ah, Lord GOD! Will you destroy all the remnant of Israel in your pouring out of your fury upon Jerusalem?"

9 Then he said to me, "The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah is exceedingly great. The land is full of blood and the city is full of perverseness. For they say, 'The LORD has forsaken the earth, and the LORD does not see.' 10 And therefore, my eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity, but I will recompense their way upon their head."

11 And behold, the man clothed with linen who had the inkhorn by his side reported the matter, saying, "I have done as you have commanded me."

[#ezk010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_The vision of the coals of fire to be scattered over the city, 1-7. The vision of the cherubim, 8-22._

1 Then I looked, and behold, in the firmament that was above the head of the cherubim there appeared over them something like a sapphire stone, in appearance as the likeness of a throne. 2 And he spoke to the man clothed with linen, and said, "Go in between the wheels, even under the cherub, and fill your hand with coals of fire from between the cherubim and scatter them over the city." And he entered in my sight.

3 Now the cherubim stood on the right side of the house when the man went in, and the cloud filled the inner court. 4 Then the glory of the LORD went up from the cherub and stood over the threshold of the house. And the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the LORD'S glory. 5 And the sound of the cherubim's wings was heard even to the outer court, like the voice of the Almighty God when he speaks.

6 And it came to pass, that when he had commanded the man clothed with linen, saying, "Take fire from between the wheels, from between the cherubim," he went in and stood beside the wheels. 7 And one cherub stretched forth his hand from between the cherubim to the fire that was between the cherubim, took some of it, and put it into the hands of him who was clothed with linen, who took it and went out. 8 And there appeared in the cherubim the form of a man's hand under their wings.

9 And when I looked, behold the four wheels by the cherubim, one wheel by one cherub and another wheel by another cherub. And the appearance of the wheels was like the color of a beryl stone. 10 And as for their appearances, the four of them had one likeness, as if a wheel had been in the midst of a wheel. 11 When they went, they went upon their four sides. They did not turn as they went. But to the place where the head looked, they followed it. They did not turn as they went. 12 And their whole body, their backs, their hands, their wings, and the wheels were full of eyes on every side, even the wheels that the four of them had. 13 As for the wheels, it was cried to them in my hearing, "O wheel." 14 And each had four faces: the first face was the face of a cherub, the second face was the face of a man, the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle.

15 And the cherubim were lifted up. This is the living creature that I saw by the river of Kebar. 16 And when the cherubim went, the wheels went by them. And when the cherubim lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, the same wheels also did not turn from beside them. 17 When they stood, these stood, and when they were lifted up, these lifted up themselves also, for the spirit of the living creature was in them.

18 Then the glory of the LORD departed from off the threshold of the house and stood over the cherubim. 19 And the cherubim lifted up their wings and mounted up from the earth in my sight. When they went out, the wheels were beside them. And each stood at the door of the east-gate of the LORD'S house, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.

20 This is the living creature that I saw under the God of Israel by the river of Kebar, and I knew that they were the cherubim. 21 Each had four faces and each four wings, and the likeness of the hands of a man was under their wings. 22 And the likeness of their faces was the same faces which I saw by the river of Kebar, their appearances and themselves. They each went straight forward.

[#ezk011%breakable]
=== Chapter 11

[.outline.text-center]
_The presumption of the princes, 1-3. Their sin and judgment, 4-12. Ezekiel crying aloud, God shows him his purpose in saving a remnant, 13-20; and punishing the wicked, 21. The glory of God leaves the city, 22, 23. Ezekiel is returned to the captivity, 24, 25._

1 Moreover, the Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the east-gate of the LORD'S house, which looks eastward. And behold, at the door of the gate were twenty-five men, among whom I saw Jaazaniah the son of Azur and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people. 2 Then he said to me, "Son of man, these are the men who devise mischief and give wicked counsel in this city, 3 Who say, 'It is not near. Let us build houses. This city is the cauldron, and we are the flesh.' 4 Therefore, prophesy against them. Prophesy, O son of man."

5 And the Spirit of the LORD fell upon me, and said to me, "Speak, 'Thus says the LORD: "Thus you have said, O house of Israel, for I know the things that come into your mind—every one of them. 6 You have multiplied your slain in this city and have filled its streets with the slain." 7 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "Your slain whom you have laid in the midst of it, they are the flesh, and this city is the cauldron, but I will bring you forth out of the midst of it. 8 You have feared the sword, and I will bring a sword upon you," says the Lord GOD. 9 "And I will bring you out of the midst of it, deliver you into the hands of strangers, and execute judgments among you. 10 You shall fall by the sword. I will judge you in the border of Israel. And you shall know that I am the LORD. 11 This city shall not be your cauldron, neither shall you be the flesh in the midst of it. But I will judge you in the border of Israel. 12 And you shall know that I am the LORD, for you have not walked in my statutes, neither executed my judgments, but have done after the manners of the heathen who are around you."'"

13 And it came to pass when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then I fell down upon my face and cried with a loud voice, and said, "Ah, Lord GOD! Will you make a full end of the remnant of Israel?"

14 Again the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 15 "Son of man, your brothers, even your brothers, the men of your kindred, and all the house of Israel wholly are those to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, 'Retire far from the LORD. This land is given to us in possession.' 16 Therefore, say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Although I have cast them far off among the heathen, and although I have scattered them among the countries, yet I will be to them as a little sanctuary in the countries where they shall come."' 17 Therefore, say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "I will even gather you from the people and assemble you out of the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel."' 18 And they shall come there and take away all its detestable things and all its abominations. 19 And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. And I will take the stony heart out of their flesh and give them a heart of flesh 20 So that they may walk in my statutes and keep my ordinances and do them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. 21 But as for those whose heart walks after the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will recompense their way upon their own heads," says the Lord GOD.

22 Then the cherubim raised their wings with the wheels beside them, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. 23 And the glory of the LORD went up from the midst of the city and stood upon the mountain which is on the east side of the city. 24 Afterward, the Spirit took me up and brought me in the vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to those who are in captivity. So the vision that I had seen went up from me. 25 Then I spoke to those who are in captivity all the things that the LORD had shown me.

[#ezk012%breakable]
=== Chapter 12

[.outline.text-center]
_Under the type of Ezekiel's exile, 1-7, is shown the captivity of Zedekiah, 8-16. Ezekiel's trembling shows the Jews' desolation, 17-20. The Jews' presumptuous proverb is reproved, 21-25. The speediness of the vision, 26-28._

1 The word of the LORD also came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, you dwell in the midst of a rebellious house. They have eyes to see but do not see, and ears to hear but do not hear, for they are a rebellious house. 3 Therefore, son of man, prepare stuff for exile and move by day in their sight. And you shall move from your place to another place in their sight. It may be that they will consider, though they are a rebellious house. 4 Then you shall bring forth your stuff for exile by day in their sight. And you shall go forth at evening in their sight like those who go forth into captivity. 5 Dig through the wall in their sight and carry out thereby. 6 In their sight you shall bear it upon your shoulders and carry it forth in the twilight. You shall cover your face so that you may not see the ground, for I have set you for a sign to the house of Israel."

7 And so I did as I was commanded. I brought forth my stuff for captivity by day, and in the evening I dug through the wall with my hand. I brought it forth in the twilight and bore it upon my shoulder in their sight.

8 And in the morning the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 9 "Son of man, has the house of Israel, the rebellious house, not said to you, 'What are you doing?' 10 Say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "This burden concerns the prince in Jerusalem and all the house of Israel who are among them."' 11 Say, 'I am your sign. As I have done, so it shall be done to them. They shall go into exile, into captivity.' 12 And the prince who is among them shall bear upon his shoulder in the twilight and shall go forth. They shall dig through the wall to carry out thereby. He shall cover his face so that he may not see the ground with his eyes. 13 My net I will also spread upon him, and he shall be taken in my snare. And I will bring him to Babylon to the land of the Chaldeans, yet he shall not see it, though he shall die there. 14 And I will scatter toward every wind all who are around him to help him and all his bands, and I will draw out the sword after them. 15 And they shall know that I am the LORD when I scatter them among the nations and disperse them in the countries. 16 But I will leave a few men of them from the sword, from the famine, and from the pestilence so that they may declare all their abominations among the heathen where they come. And they shall know that I am the LORD."

17 Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 18 "Son of man, eat your bread with quaking and drink your water with trembling and with solicitude. 19 And say to the people of the land, 'Thus says the Lord GOD of the inhabitants of Jerusalem and of the land of Israel: "They shall eat their bread with solicitude and drink their water with astonishment, for her land will be desolate from all that is therein because of the violence of all those who dwell therein. 20 And the cities that are inhabited shall be laid waste, and the land shall be desolate. And you shall know that I am the LORD."'"

21 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 22 "Son of man, what is that proverb that you have in the land of Israel, saying, 'The days are prolonged, and every vision fails'? 23 Tell them therefore, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "I will make this proverb to cease, and they shall no longer use it as a proverb in Israel." But say to them, "The days are at hand, as well as the effect of every vision. 24 For there shall no longer be any vain vision nor flattering divination within the house of Israel. 25 For I am the LORD. I will speak, and the word that I shall speak shall come to pass. It shall no longer be prolonged, for in your days, O rebellious house, I will say the word and perform it," says the Lord GOD.'"

26 Again the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 27 "Son of man, behold, those of the house of Israel say, 'The vision that he sees is for many days to come, and he prophesies of the times that are distant.' 28 Therefore, say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "None of my words shall be further deferred, but the word which I have spoken shall be done,"'" says the Lord GOD.

[#ezk013%breakable]
=== Chapter 13

[.outline.text-center]
_The reproof of lying prophets, 1-9, and their untempered mortar, 10-16. Of prophetesses and their cushions, 17-23._

1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who prophesy, and say to those who prophesy out of their own hearts, 'Hear the word of the LORD. 3 Thus says the Lord GOD: "Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit and have seen nothing! 4 O Israel, your prophets are like the foxes in the deserts. 5 You have not gone up into the gaps, neither made up the hedge for the house of Israel to stand in the battle in the day of the LORD. 6 They have seen vanity and lying divination, saying, 'The LORD says,' and the LORD has not sent them, and they have made others to hope that they would confirm the word. 7 Have you not seen a vain vision, and have you not spoken a lying divination when you say, 'The LORD says it,' even though I have not spoken?"'"

8 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "Because you have spoken vanity and seen lies, therefore, behold, I am against you," says the Lord GOD. 9 "And my hand shall be upon the prophets who see vanity and who divine lies. They shall not be in the assembly of my people, neither shall they be written in the writing of the house of Israel, neither shall they enter into the land of Israel. And you shall know that I am the Lord GOD. 10 Because, even because they have seduced my people, saying, 'Peace,' and there was no peace, and one built up a wall, and behold, others daubed it with untempered mortar, 11 Tell those who daub it with untempered mortar that it shall fall. There shall be an overflowing shower, and you, O great hailstones, shall fall, and a stormy wind shall rend it. 12 Behold, when the wall has fallen, shall it not be said to you, 'Where is the daubing with which you have daubed it?'" 13 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "I will even rend it with a stormy wind in my fury, and there shall be an overflowing shower in my anger and great hailstones in my fury to consume it. 14 Thus I will break down the wall that you have daubed with untempered mortar and bring it down to the ground so that its foundation shall be made bare. It shall fall, and you shall be consumed in the midst of it. And you shall know that I am the LORD. 15 Thus I will accomplish my wrath upon the wall and upon those who have daubed it with untempered mortar, and will say to you, 'The wall is no more, neither those who daubed it, 16 Namely, the prophets of Israel who prophesy concerning Jerusalem and who see visions of peace for her when there is no peace,' says the Lord GOD.

17 "Likewise, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people who prophesy out of their own heart, and prophesy against them, 18 And say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Woe to the women who sew cushions to all armpits and make veils upon the head of every stature to hunt souls! Will you hunt the souls of my people, but save the souls alive who come to you? 19 You profane me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread. You slay the souls who should not die and save the souls alive who should not live by your lying to my people who hear your lies."'"

20 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I am against your cushions with which you hunt the souls there to make them fly. I will tear them from your arms and let the souls go, even the souls whom you hunt to make them fly. 21 Your veils I will also tear and deliver my people out of your hand, and they shall no longer be in your hand to be hunted. And you shall know that I am the LORD. 22 Because with lies you have made the heart of the righteous sad, whom I have not made sad, and strengthened the hands of the wicked so that he should not return from his wicked way and be saved alive, 23 Therefore you shall see no more vanity nor divine divinations, for I will deliver my people out of your hand. And you shall know that I am the LORD."

[#ezk014%breakable]
=== Chapter 14

[.outline.text-center]
_God answers idolaters according to their own heart, 1-5. They are exhorted to repent of their sins and reform their lives, or else it is at their peril to inquire of God, 6-11. God's irrevocable sentence of famine, 12-14; of noisome beasts, 15, 16; of the sword, 17, 18; and of pestilence, 19-21. A remnant shall be reserved for example of others, 22, 23._

1 Then some of the elders of Israel came to me and sat before me. 2 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 3 "Son of man, these men have set up their idols in their heart and put the stumbling-block of their iniquity before their face. Should I be inquired of at all by them? 4 Therefore, speak to them, and say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Every man of the house of Israel who sets up his idols in his heart and puts the stumbling-block of his iniquity before his face and comes to the prophet, I, the LORD, will answer him who comes according to the multitude of his idols, 5 So that I may take the house of Israel in their own heart, because they are all estranged from me through their idols."'

6 "Therefore, say to the house of Israel, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Repent, turn yourselves from your idols, and turn away your faces from all your abominations. 7 For when anyone from the house of Israel or from the strangers who sojourn in Israel who separates himself from me, sets up his idols in his heart, puts the stumbling-block of his iniquity before his face, and comes to a prophet to inquire of him concerning me, I, the LORD, will answer him by myself. 8 And I will set my face against that man, make him a sign and a proverb, and I will cut him off from the midst of my people. And you shall know that I am the LORD.

9 "And if the prophet is deceived when he has spoken a thing, I, the LORD, have deceived that prophet. And I will stretch out my hand upon him and destroy him from the midst of my people Israel. 10 And they shall bear the punishment of their iniquity. The punishment of the prophet shall be even as the punishment of him who seeks him, 11 So that the house of Israel may no longer go astray from me, neither be polluted anymore with all their transgressions, but that they may be my people and I may be their God,"' says the Lord GOD."

12 The word of the LORD came to me again, saying, 13 "Son of man, when the land sins against me by trespassing grievously, I will stretch out my hand upon it, break the staff of the bread thereof, send famine upon it, and cut off man and beast from it. 14 Though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they should deliver their own souls only by their righteousness," says the Lord GOD. 15 "If I cause noisome beasts to pass through the land, and they lay it waste and it becomes desolate so that no man may pass through because of the beasts, 16 Though these three men were in it, as I live," says the Lord GOD, "they shall deliver neither sons nor daughters. Only they shall be delivered, but the land shall be desolate. 17 Or if I bring a sword upon that land, and say, 'Sword, go through the land,' so that I cut off man and beast from it, 18 Though these three men were in it, as I live," says the Lord GOD, "they shall deliver neither sons nor daughters. But only they shall be delivered themselves. 19 Or if I send a pestilence into that land and pour out my fury upon it in blood to cut off man and beast from it, 20 Though Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live," says the Lord GOD, "they shall deliver neither son nor daughter. They shall deliver only their own souls by their righteousness."

21 For thus says the Lord GOD: "How much more when I send my four severe judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword, the famine, the noisome beast, and the pestilence, to cut off man and beast from it! 22 Yet behold, therein shall be left a remnant who shall be brought forth, both sons and daughters. Behold, they shall come forth to you, and you shall see their way and their doings. And you shall be comforted concerning the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, even concerning all that I have brought upon it. 23 And they shall comfort you when you see their ways and their doings. And you shall know that I have not done without cause all that I have done in it," says the Lord GOD.

[#ezk015%breakable]
=== Chapter 15

[.outline.text-center]
_By the unfitness of the vine branch for any work, 1-5, is shown the rejection of Jerusalem, 6-8._

1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, what is the vine-tree more than any tree, the branch which is among the trees of the forest? 3 Shall wood be taken from it to do any work? Or will men take a pin from it to hang any vessel upon it? 4 Behold, it is cast into the fire for fuel. The fire devours both its ends, and the midst of it is burned. Is it profitable for any work? 5 Behold, when it was whole, it was fit for no work. How much less then shall it be fit for any work when the fire has devoured it and it is burned? 6 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: 'As the vine-tree among the trees of the forest, which I have given to the fire for fuel, so I will give the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 7 And I will set my face against them. They shall go out from one fire and another fire shall devour them. And you shall know that I am the LORD when I set my face against them. 8 And I will make the land desolate because they have committed a trespass,'" says the Lord GOD.

[#ezk016%breakable]
=== Chapter 16

[.outline.text-center]
_Under the similitude of a wretched infant is shown the natural state of Jerusalem, 1-5. God's extraordinary love toward her, 6-14. Her monstrous lewdness, 15-34. Her grievous judgment, 35-43. Her sin, equal to her mother's and exceeding that of her sisters, Sodom and Samaria, calls for judgments, 44-59. Mercy is promised to her in the end, 60-63._

1 Again the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, cause Jerusalem to know her abominations, 3 And say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD to Jerusalem: "Your birth and your nativity is of the land of Canaan. Your father was an Amorite and your mother a Hittite. 4 And as for your nativity, in the day you were born your navel was not cut, neither were you washed in water to supple you. You were not salted at all nor swaddled at all. 5 No eye pitied you to do any of these to you, to have compassion upon you. But you were cast out in the open field because you were loathed on the day that you were born.

6 "And when I passed by you and saw you polluted in your own blood, I said to you when you were in your blood, 'Live.' I even said to you when you were in your blood, 'Live.' 7 I have caused you to multiply as the bud of the field, and you have increased and become great and have come to excellent ornaments. Your breasts are fashioned and your hair is grown, whereas you were naked and bare.

8 "Now when I passed by you and looked upon you, behold, your time was the time of love. And I spread my skirt over you and covered your nakedness. I even swore to you and entered into a covenant with you," says the Lord GOD, "and you became mine. 9 Then I washed you with water. I even thoroughly washed away your blood from you and anointed you with oil. 10 I also clothed you with embroidered work, shod you with badgers' skin, girded you with fine linen, and I covered you with silk. 11 I also decked you with ornaments. I put bracelets upon your hands and a chain on your neck. 12 And I put a jewel on your forehead, earrings in your ears, and a beautiful crown upon your head. 13 Thus you were decked with gold and silver, and your clothing was of fine linen, silk, and embroidered work. You ate fine flour, honey, and oil. You were exceedingly beautiful and you prospered into a kingdom. 14 And your renown went forth among the heathen for your beauty, for it was perfect through my splendor which I had put upon you," says the Lord GOD.

15 "But you trusted in your own beauty, played the harlot because of your renown, and poured out your fornications on everyone who passed by—it became his. 16 And you took some of your garments, decked your high places with diverse colors, and played the harlot upon them. Such things shall not come, neither shall it be so. 17 You have also taken your fair jewels of my gold and of my silver, which I had given you, and have made for yourself images of men and committed lewdness with them. 18 And you have taken your embroidered garments and covered them, and you have set my oil and my incense before them. 19 Also my provisions which I gave you—fine flour, oil, and honey, with which I fed you—you have even set before them for a sweet savor. And thus it was," says the Lord GOD. 20 "Moreover, you have taken your sons and your daughters, whom you have borne to me, and these you have sacrificed to them to be devoured. Was your lewdness a small matter 21 That you have slain my children and delivered them to cause them to pass through the fire for them? 22 And in all your abominations and your deeds of lewdness you have not remembered the days of your youth when you were naked and bare and polluted in your blood.

23 "And it came to pass after all your wickedness ('Woe, woe to you!' says the Lord GOD), 24 That you have also built for yourself an eminent place and have made yourself a high place in every street. 25 You have built your high place at every head of the way, made your beauty to be abhorred, prostituted yourself to everyone who passed by, and multiplied your lewd deeds. 26 You have also committed fornication with the Egyptians your neighbors, great of flesh, and have multiplied your lewd deeds to provoke me to anger. 27 And behold, I have stretched out my hand over you and have diminished your ordinary food and delivered you to the will of those who hate you, the daughters of the Philistines, who are ashamed of your lewd way. 28 You have played the harlot also with the Assyrians, because you were insatiable. Indeed, you have played the harlot with them, and yet could not be satisfied. 29 You have moreover multiplied your fornication in the land of Canaan to Chaldea, and yet with this you were not satisfied."'"

30 "How weak is your heart," says the Lord GOD, "seeing you do all these things, the work of an imperious lewd woman, 31 In that you build your eminent place in the head of every way and make your high place in every street. But you have not been like a harlot, in that you scorn payment. 32 You are a wife who commits adultery, who takes strangers instead of her husband! 33 They give gifts to all lewd women, but you give your gifts to all your lovers and hire them so that they may come to you on every side for your lewdness. 34 And the contrary is in you from other women in your unlawful commerce, whereas no one follows you to commit lewdness. And in that you give a reward, and no reward is given to you, therefore you are contrary."

35 Therefore, O harlot, hear the word of the LORD. 36 Thus says the Lord GOD: "Because your filthiness was poured out and your nakedness exposed through your carnal connection with your lovers, with all the idols of your abominations, and by the blood of your children, which you gave to them, 37 Behold therefore, I will gather all your lovers, with whom you have taken pleasure, and all those whom you have loved, with all those whom you have hated. I will even gather them on every side against you and will uncover your nakedness to them so that they may see all your nakedness. 38 And I will judge you as women who break wedlock and shed blood are judged. And I will give you blood in fury and jealousy. 39 And I will also give you into their hand, and they shall throw down your eminent place and break down your high places. They shall also strip you of your clothes, take your fair jewels, and leave you naked and bare. 40 They shall also bring up a company against you, and they shall stone you with stones and thrust you through with their swords. 41 And they shall burn your houses with fire and execute judgments upon you in the sight of many women. And I will cause you to cease from playing the harlot, and you shall also give no payment anymore. 42 Thus I will make my fury toward you to rest and my jealousy shall depart from you. I will be quiet and will no longer be angry. 43 Because you have not remembered the days of your youth, but have provoked me in all these things, behold therefore, I also will recompense your way upon your head," says the Lord GOD, "and you shall not commit this lewdness above all your abominations.

44 "Behold, everyone who uses proverbs shall use this proverb against you, saying, 'As is the mother, so is her daughter.' 45 You are your mother's daughter, who loathes her husband and her children, and you are the sister of your sisters, who loathed their husbands and their children. Your mother was a Hittite and your father an Amorite. 46 And your elder sister is Samaria—she and her daughters who dwell at your left hand. And your younger sister, who dwells at your right hand, is Sodom with her daughters. 47 Yet you have not walked after their ways nor done according to their abominations. But as if that were a very little thing, you were corrupted more than they were in all your ways. 48 As I live," says the Lord GOD, "Sodom your sister has not done—she nor her daughters—as you and your daughters have done. 49 Behold, this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom: pride, fullness of bread, and abundance of idleness was in her and in her daughters, neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy. 50 And they were haughty and committed abomination before me; therefore, I took them away as I saw good. 51 Samaria has not committed half of your sins, but you have multiplied your abominations more than they have and have justified your sisters in all your abominations which you have done. 52 You also, who have judged your sisters, bear your own shame for your sins that you have committed which are more abominable than theirs. They are more righteous than you. Indeed, be also confounded and bear your shame, in that you have justified your sisters.

53 "When I bring back their captivity, the captivity of Sodom and her daughters, and the captivity of Samaria and her daughters, I will bring back the captivity of your captives in the midst of them, 54 So that you may bear your own shame and be confounded in all that you have done, in that you are a comfort to them. 55 When your sisters, Sodom and her daughters, return to their former state, and Samaria and her daughters return to their former state, then you and your daughters shall return to your former state. 56 For your sister Sodom was not mentioned by your mouth in the day of your pride, 57 Before your wickedness was disclosed, like at the time of the reproach of the daughters of Syria and all who are around her, the daughters of the Philistines, who despise you on every side. 58 You have borne your lewdness and your abominations," says the LORD. 59 For thus says the Lord GOD: "I will even deal with you as you have done, who have despised the oath in breaking the covenant.

60 "Nevertheless, I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish an everlasting covenant with you. 61 Then you shall remember your ways and be ashamed when you receive your sisters, your elder and your younger. And I will give them to you for daughters, but not by your covenant. 62 And I will establish my covenant with you. And you shall know that I am the LORD, 63 So that you may remember and be confounded and never open your mouth anymore because of your shame, when I am pacified toward you for all that you have done," says the Lord GOD.

[#ezk017%breakable]
=== Chapter 17

[.outline.text-center]
_Under the parable of two eagles and a vine, 1-10, is shown God's judgment upon Jerusalem for revolting from Babylon to Egypt, 11-21. God promises to plant the cedar of the Gospel, 22-24._

1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, put forth a riddle and speak a parable to the house of Israel, 3 And say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "A great eagle with great wings, long-winged, full of feathers, which had diverse colors, came to Lebanon and took the highest branch of the cedar. 4 He cropped off the top of its young twigs and carried it into a land of traders. He set it in a city of merchants. 5 He also took some of the seed of the land and planted it in a fruitful field. He placed it by great waters and set it like a willow tree. 6 And it grew and became a spreading vine of low stature, whose branches turned toward him and its roots were under him. So it became a vine, and brought forth branches and shot forth sprigs.

7 "There was also another great eagle with great wings and many feathers, and behold, this vine bent her roots toward him and shot forth her branches toward him, so that he might water it by the furrows of her plantation. 8 It was planted in good soil by great waters so that it might bring forth branches, bear fruit, and be an ample vine."' 9 Say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Shall it prosper? Shall he not pull up its roots and cut off its fruit so that it may wither? It shall wither in all the leaves of her spring, even without great power or many people to pluck it up by its roots. 10 Indeed, behold, being planted, shall it prosper? Shall it not utterly wither when the east wind touches it? It shall wither in the furrows where it grew."'"

11 Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 12 "Now say to the rebellious house, 'Do you not know what these things mean?' Tell them, 'Behold, the king of Babylon has come to Jerusalem and has taken its king and its princes and led them with him to Babylon, 13 And has taken someone from the king's offspring and made a covenant with him, bringing him under an oath. He has also taken the mighty of the land, 14 So that the kingdom might be base and not lift itself up, but keep his covenant so that it might stand. 15 But he rebelled against him in sending his ambassadors into Egypt so that they might give him horses and many people. Shall he prosper? Shall he escape who does such things? Or shall he break the covenant and be delivered? 16 As I live,' says the Lord GOD, 'surely in the place where the king dwells who made him king, whose oath he despised and whose covenant he broke, even with him in the midst of Babylon he shall die. 17 Pharaoh, with his mighty army and great company, shall not help him in the war when they cast up siege-mounds and build forts to cut off many lives. 18 Seeing that he despised the oath by breaking the covenant, when behold, he had given his hand and has done all these things, he shall not escape.'" 19 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "As I live, surely my oath that he has despised and my covenant that he has broken, even that I will recompense upon his own head. 20 And I will spread my net upon him, and he shall be taken in my snare. And I will bring him to Babylon and plead with him there for his trespass that he has trespassed against me. 21 And all his fugitives with all his bands shall fall by the sword, and those who remain shall be scattered toward all winds. And you shall know that I, the LORD, have spoken it."

22 Thus says the Lord GOD: "I will also take from the highest branch of the high cedar, and will set it. I will crop off from the top of its young twigs a tender one and plant it upon a high and eminent mountain. [[ezk017-023]]23 On the mountain of the height of Israel I will plant it. And it shall bring forth boughs, bear fruit, and be a majestic cedar. And under it all birds of every wing shall dwell. In the shade of its branches they shall dwell. 24 And all the trees of the field shall know that I, the LORD, have brought down the high tree, have exalted the low tree, have dried up the green tree, and have made the dry tree to flourish. I, the LORD, have spoken and have done it."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.23]*: Quoted in xref:#mth013-032[Matthew 13:32]; xref:#luk013-019[Luke 13:19].

[#ezk018%breakable]
=== Chapter 18

[.outline.text-center]
_God defends his justice, 1-30; and exhorts to repentance, 31, 32._

1 The word of the LORD came to me again, saying, 2 "What do you mean, that you use this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|'The fathers have eaten sour grapes, [.linebr]#/# +
and the children's teeth are set on edge'?
|===

3 As I live," says the Lord GOD, "you shall not have occasion anymore to use this proverb in Israel. 4 Behold, all souls are mine. As the soul of the father, so also the soul of the son is mine. The soul who sins, he shall die.

5 "But if a man is just and does that which is lawful and right, 6 Has not eaten upon the mountains, neither has lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, neither has defiled his neighbor's wife, neither has come near to a polluted woman, 7 Has not oppressed any, but has restored to the debtor his pledge, has stripped no one by violence, has given his bread to the hungry, has covered the naked with a garment, 8 Has not given forth upon interest, neither has taken any increase, has withdrawn his hand from iniquity, has executed true judgment between man and man, 9 Has walked in my statutes and has kept my judgments to deal truly, he is just and he shall surely live," says the Lord GOD.

10 "If he begets a son who is a robber, a shedder of blood, who does the like of any one of these things, 11 Who does not do any of those duties, but even has eaten upon the mountains, defiled his neighbor's wife, 12 Has oppressed the poor and needy, has stripped by violence, has not restored the pledge, has lifted up his eyes to the idols, has committed abomination, 13 Has given forth upon interest, and has taken increase, shall he then live? He shall not live. He has done all these abominations. He shall surely die. His blood shall be upon him.

14 "Now behold, if he begets a son, who sees all his father's sins which he has done, and considers, and does not do such things, 15 Who has not eaten upon the mountains, neither has lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, has not defiled his neighbor's wife, 16 Neither has oppressed any, has not withheld the pledge, neither has stripped by violence, but has given his bread to the hungry, has covered the naked with a garment, 17 Who has taken off his hand from the poor, who has not received interest nor increase, has executed my judgments, and has walked in my statutes, he shall not die for the iniquity of his father. He shall surely live. 18 As for his father, because he cruelly oppressed, stripped his brother by violence, and did that which is not good among his people, behold, even he shall die in his iniquity.

19 "Yet you say, 'Why? Does the son not bear the iniquity of the father?' When the son has done that which is lawful and right, has kept all my statutes, and has done them, he shall surely live. 20 The soul who sins, he shall die. The son shall not bear the iniquity of the father, neither shall the father bear the iniquity of the son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon him, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon him.

21 "But if the wicked will turn from all his sins that he has committed and keep all my statutes and do that which is lawful and right, he shall surely live. He shall not die. 22 All his transgressions that he has committed, they shall not be mentioned to him. In his righteousness that he has done he shall live. 23 Have I any pleasure at all that the wicked should die," says the Lord GOD, "and not that he should return from his ways and live?

24 "But when the righteous turns away from his righteousness, commits iniquity, and does according to all the abominations that the wicked man does, shall he live? All his righteousness that he has done shall not be mentioned. In his trespass that he has trespassed, and in his sin that he has sinned, in them he shall die. 25 Yet you say, 'The way of the Lord is not equal.' Hear now, O house of Israel. Is my way not equal? Are your ways not unequal? 26 When a righteous man turns away from his righteousness and commits iniquity and dies in them, for his iniquity that he has done he shall die. 27 Again, when a wicked man turns away from his wickedness that he has committed and does that which is lawful and right, he shall save his soul alive. 28 Because he considers and turns away from all his transgressions that he has committed, he shall surely live. He shall not die. 29 Yet the house of Israel says, 'The way of the Lord is not equal.' O house of Israel, are my ways not equal? Are your ways not unequal?

30 "Therefore, I will judge you, O house of Israel, each according to his ways," says the Lord GOD. "Repent, and turn yourselves from all your transgressions so that iniquity is not your ruin. 31 Cast away from you all your transgressions by which you have transgressed, and make yourselves a new heart and a new spirit. For why will you die, O house of Israel? 32 For I have no pleasure in the death of him who dies," says the Lord GOD. "Therefore, turn, and live."

[#ezk019%breakable]
=== Chapter 19

[.outline.text-center]
_A lamentation for the princes of Israel, under the parable of a lion's whelps taken in a pit, 1-9; and for Jerusalem, under the parable of a wasted vine, 10-14._

1 "Moreover, take up a lamentation for the princes of Israel, 2 And say,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|'What is your mother? A lioness. [.linebr]#/# +
She lay down among lions. [.linebr]#/# +
She nourished her whelps [.linebr]#/# +
among young lions.

|
|3 And she brought up one of her whelps. [.linebr]#/# +
It became a young lion [.linebr]#/# +
and it learned to catch prey. [.linebr]#/# +
It devoured men.

|
|4 The nations also heard of him. [.linebr]#/# +
He was taken in their pit, [.linebr]#/# +
and they brought him with chains [.linebr]#/# +
to the land of Egypt.

|
|5 Now when she saw that she had waited [.linebr]#/# +
and her hope was lost, [.linebr]#/# +
she took another of her whelps [.linebr]#/# +
and made him a young lion.

|
|6 And he went up and down among the lions. [.linebr]#/# +
He became a young lion [.linebr]#/# +
and learned to catch prey. [.linebr]#/# +
He devoured men.

|
|7 And he knew their desolate palaces, [.linebr]#/# +
and he laid waste their cities. [.linebr]#/# +
And the land and its fullness was desolate [.linebr]#/# +
by the noise of his roaring.

|
|8 Then the nations set against him [.linebr]#/# +
on every side from the provinces [.linebr]#/# +
and spread their net over him. [.linebr]#/# +
He was taken in their pit.

|
|9 And they put him in a cage with hooks [.linebr]#/# +
and brought him to the king of Babylon. [.linebr]#/# +
They brought him into holds, [.linebr]#/# +
so that his voice should no longer be heard [.linebr]#/# +
upon the mountains of Israel.

|
|10 Your mother is like a vine in your blood [.linebr]#/# +
planted by the waters. [.linebr]#/# +
She was fruitful and full of branches [.linebr]#/# +
by reason of many waters.

|
|11 And she had strong branches [.linebr]#/# +
for the scepters of those who bore rule, [.linebr]#/# +
and her stature was exalted [.linebr]#/# +
among the thick branches, [.linebr]#/# +
and she appeared in her height [.linebr]#/# +
with the multitude of her branches.

|
|12 But she was plucked up in fury, [.linebr]#/# +
she was cast down to the ground, [.linebr]#/# +
and the east wind dried up her fruit. [.linebr]#/# +
Her strong rods were broken and withered. [.linebr]#/# +
The fire consumed them.

|
|13 And now she is planted in the wilderness [.linebr]#/# +
in a dry and thirsty ground.

|
|14 And fire has gone out of the rod of her branches. [.linebr]#/# +
It has devoured her fruit, [.linebr]#/# +
so that she has no strong rod [.linebr]#/# +
to be a scepter to rule.'"
|===

+[+ _This is a lamentation and shall be for a lamentation._ +]+

[#ezk020%breakable]
=== Chapter 20

[.outline.text-center]
_God refuses to be consulted by the elders of Israel, 1-3. He tells the story of their rebellions in Egypt, 4-9, in the wilderness, 10-26, and in the land, 27-32. He promises to gather them by the Gospel, 33-44. Under the name of a forest he shows the destruction of Jerusalem, 45-49._

1 And it came to pass in the seventh year, in the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month, that some of the elders of Israel came to inquire of the LORD and sat before me. 2 Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 3 "Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel, and say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Have you come to inquire of me? As I live," says the Lord GOD, "I will not be inquired of by you."' 4 Will you judge them, son of man, will you judge them? Cause them to know the abominations of their fathers, 5 And say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "In the day when I chose Israel and lifted up my hand to the offspring of the house of Jacob and made myself known to them in the land of Egypt, when I lifted up my hand to them, saying, 'I am the LORD your God,' 6 In the day that I lifted up my hand to them, to bring them forth from the land of Egypt into a land that I had espied for them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands, 7 I said to them, 'Every one of you cast away the abominations of his eyes, and do not defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt. I am the LORD your God.' 8 But they rebelled against me and would not listen to me. They did not each cast away the abominations of their eyes, neither did they forsake the idols of Egypt. Then I said I would pour out my fury upon them to accomplish my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt. 9 But I wrought for my name's sake so that it should not be profaned before the heathen, among whom they were, in whose sight I made myself known to them in bringing them forth from the land of Egypt. 10 Therefore, I caused them to go forth from the land of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness. 11 And I gave them my statutes and showed them my judgments, which if a man does, he shall even live in them. 12 Moreover, I also gave them my sabbaths to be a sign between me and them, so that they might know that I am the LORD who sanctifies them. 13 But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They did not walk in my statutes and they despised my judgments, which if a man does, he shall even live in them, and they greatly profaned my sabbaths. Then I said that I would pour out my fury upon them in the wilderness to consume them. 14 But I wrought for my name's sake so that it should not be profaned before the heathen, in whose sight I brought them out. 15 Yet I also lifted up my hand to them in the wilderness so that I would not bring them into the land which I had given them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands, 16 Because they despised my judgments and did not walk in my statutes, but profaned my sabbaths, for their heart went after their idols. 17 Nevertheless, my eye spared them from destroying them, neither did I make an end of them in the wilderness.

18 "But I said to their children in the wilderness, 'Do not walk in the statutes of your fathers, neither observe their judgments, nor defile yourselves with their idols. 19 I am the LORD your God. Walk in my statutes, keep my judgments, and do them. 20 Hallow my sabbaths, and they shall be a sign between me and you so that you may know that I am the LORD your God.' 21 But the children rebelled against me. They did not walk in my statutes or keep my judgments to do them, which if a man does, he shall even live in them. They profaned my sabbaths. Then I said that I would pour out my fury upon them to accomplish my anger against them in the wilderness. 22 Nevertheless, I withdrew my hand and wrought for my name's sake so that it should not be profaned in the sight of the heathen, in whose sight I brought them forth. 23 I lifted up my hand to them also in the wilderness so that I would scatter them among the heathen and disperse them through the countries. 24 For they had not executed my judgments, but had despised my statutes and had profaned my sabbaths, and their eyes were after their fathers' idols. 25 Therefore, I also gave them statutes that were not good and judgments by which they should not live. 26 And I polluted them in their own gifts, in that they caused all the first-born to pass through the fire, so that I might make them desolate, to the end that they might know that I am the LORD."'

27 "Therefore, son of man, speak to the house of Israel, and say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Yet in this your fathers have blasphemed me, in that they have committed a trespass against me. 28 For when I had brought them into the land, for which I lifted up my hand to give it to them, they saw every high hill and all the thick trees, and they offered their sacrifices there and they presented the provocation of their offering there. They also made their sweet savor there and poured out their drink-offerings there. 29 Then I said to them, 'What is the high place to which you go?' And its name is called Bamah to this day."' 30 Therefore, say to the house of Israel, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Are you polluted after the manner of your fathers? And do you commit lewd deeds after their abominations? 31 For when you offer your gifts, when you make your sons to pass through the fire, you pollute yourselves with all your idols, even to this day. And shall I be inquired of by you, O house of Israel? As I live," says the Lord GOD, "I will not be inquired of by you. 32 And that which comes into your mind shall not be at all, when you say, 'We will be as the heathen, as the families of the countries, to serve wood and stone.'

33 "As I live," says the Lord GOD, "surely with a mighty hand, with an out-stretched arm, and with fury poured out, I will rule over you. 34 And I will bring you out from the people and will gather you out of the countries in which you are scattered with a mighty hand, with an out-stretched arm, and with fury poured out. 35 And I will bring you into the wilderness of the people, and there I will plead with you face to face. 36 As I pleaded with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will plead with you," says the Lord GOD. 37 "And I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant. 38 And I will purge out from among you the rebels and those who transgress against me. I will bring them forth out of the country where they sojourn, and they shall not enter into the land of Israel. And you shall know that I am the LORD.

39 "As for you, O house of Israel," thus says the Lord GOD: "Go, each of you serve his idols, and hereafter also, if you will not listen to me. But profane my holy name no longer with your gifts and with your idols. 40 For on my holy mountain, on the mountain of the height of Israel," says the Lord GOD, "there all the house of Israel, all of them in the land, shall serve me. There I will accept them, and there I will require your offerings and the first fruits of your oblations, with all your holy things. 41 I will accept you with your sweet savor when I bring you out from the people and gather you out of the countries in which you have been scattered. And I will be sanctified in you before the heathen. 42 And you shall know that I am the LORD when I bring you into the land of Israel, into the country for which I lifted up my hand to give it to your fathers. 43 And there you shall remember your ways and all your doings in which you have been defiled. And you shall loathe yourselves in your own sight for all your evils that you have committed. 44 And you shall know that I am the LORD when I have wrought with you for my name's sake and not according to your wicked ways, nor according to your corrupt doings, O house of Israel," says the Lord GOD.'"

45 Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 46 "Son of man, set your face toward the south. Prophesy toward the south and prophesy against the forest of the south field, 47 And say to the forest of the south, 'Hear the word of the LORD. Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I will kindle a fire in you, and it shall devour every green tree in you, and every dry tree. The flaming flame shall not be quenched, and all faces from the south to the north shall be burned therein. 48 And all flesh shall see that I, the LORD, have kindled it. It shall not be quenched."'" 49 Then I said, "Ah, Lord GOD! They say of me, 'Does he not speak parables?'"

[#ezk021%breakable]
=== Chapter 21

[.outline.text-center]
_Ezekiel prophesies against Jerusalem with a sign of sighing, 1-7. The sharp and bright sword, 8-17; against Jerusalem, 18-24; against the kingdom, 25-27; and against the Ammonites, 28-32._

1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem. Prophesy toward the holy places and prophesy against the land of Israel, 3 And say to the land of Israel, 'Thus says the LORD: "Behold, I am against you, and I will draw forth my sword out of its sheath and will cut off from you the righteous and the wicked. 4 Seeing then that I will cut off from you the righteous and the wicked, therefore my sword shall go forth from its sheath against all flesh from the south to the north 5 So that all flesh may know that I, the LORD, have drawn my sword out of its sheath. It shall not return anymore."' 6 Sigh therefore, son of man, with the breaking of your loins. And with bitterness sigh before their eyes. 7 And it shall be, when they say to you, 'Why do you sigh?' that you shall answer, 'For the tidings, because it comes. And every heart shall melt, all hands shall be feeble, every spirit shall faint, and all knees shall be weak as water. Behold, it comes and shall be brought to pass,' says the Lord GOD."

8 Again the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 9 "Son of man, prophesy, and say, 'Thus says the LORD:' Say,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|'A sword, a sword is sharpened [.linebr]#/# +
and also furbished.

|
|10 It is sharpened to make a grievous slaughter. [.linebr]#/# +
It is furbished so that it may glitter.'
|===

Should we then make mirth? The rod of my son despises every tree. 11 And he has given it to be furbished so that it may be handled. The sword is sharpened and it is furbished to give it into the hand of the slayer. 12 Cry and howl, son of man, for it shall be upon my people. It shall be upon all the princes of Israel. Terrors by reason of the sword shall be upon my people. Smite therefore upon your thigh. 13 For there is a trial. And what if the sword despises even the rod? It shall be no more," says the Lord GOD.

14 "You therefore, son of man, prophesy, and smite your hands together, and let the sword be doubled the third time—the sword of the slain. It is the sword of the great men who are slain which enters into their private chambers. 15 I have set the point of the sword against all their gates so that their hearts may faint and their ruins are multiplied. Ah! It is made bright. It is sharpened for the slaughter. 16 Go one way or another, either on the right hand or on the left, wherever your face is set. 17 I will also smite my hands together, and I will cause my fury to rest. I, the LORD, have said it."

18 The word of the LORD came to me again, saying, 19 "Also, son of man, appoint two ways that the sword of the king of Babylon may come. Both ways shall come forth from one land. And choose a place, choose it at the head of the way to the city. 20 Appoint a way that the sword may come to Rabbah of the Ammonites, and to Judah in Jerusalem the fortified. 21 For the king of Babylon stood at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination. He made his arrows bright, he consulted with images, he looked in the liver. 22 At his right hand was the divination for Jerusalem to appoint captains, to open the mouth in the slaughter, to lift up the voice with shouting, to appoint battering rams against the gates, to cast a siege-mound, and to build a fort. 23 And it shall be to them like a false divination in the sight of those who have sworn oaths, but he will call to remembrance their iniquity so that they may be taken.

24 "Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: 'Because you have made your iniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions are disclosed, so that in all your doings your sins appear—because you have come to remembrance—you shall be taken with the hand. 25 And you, profane wicked prince of Israel, whose day has come when iniquity has an end,' 26 Thus says the Lord GOD: 'Remove the diadem and take off the crown. This shall not be the same. Exalt him who is low and abase him who is high. 27 I will overturn, overturn, overturn it, and it shall be no more until he comes whose right it is. And I will give it to him.'

28 "And you, son of man, prophesy and say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD concerning the Ammonites and concerning their reproach,' even say, 'The sword, the sword is drawn. For the slaughter it is furbished to consume because of the glittering— 29 While they see vanity for you, while they divine a lie for you—to bring you upon the necks of the wicked who are slain, whose day has come when their iniquity has an end. 30 Shall I cause it to return into its sheath? I will judge you in the place where you were created, in the land of your nativity. 31 And I will pour out my indignation upon you. I will blow against you in the fire of my wrath and deliver you into the hand of brutish men who are skillful to destroy. 32 You shall be for fuel to the fire. Your blood shall be in the midst of the land. You shall no longer be remembered. For I, the LORD, have spoken it.'"

[#ezk022%breakable]
=== Chapter 22

[.outline.text-center]
_A catalog of sins in Jerusalem, and the dispersion of the Jews in consequence, 1-16. God will burn them as dross in his furnace, 17-22. The general corruption of prophets, priests, princes, and people, 23-31._

1 Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Now, son of man, will you judge, will you judge the bloody city? Indeed, you shall show her all her abominations. 3 Then say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "The city sheds blood in the midst of it so that her time may come, and makes idols against herself to defile herself. 4 You have become guilty in your blood that you have shed, have defiled yourself by your idols which you have made, have caused your days to draw near, and have come even to your years; therefore, I have made you a reproach to the heathen and a mocking to all countries. 5 Those who are near and those who are far from you shall mock you, who are infamous and much troubled.

6 "Behold, the princes of Israel each used his power to shed blood in you. 7 In you they have set light by father and mother. In the midst of you they have dealt by oppression with the stranger. In you they have oppressed the fatherless and the widow. 8 You have despised my holy things and have profaned my sabbaths. 9 In you are men who carry tales to shed blood. And in you they eat upon the mountains. In the midst of you they commit lewdness. 10 In you they have uncovered their fathers' nakedness. In you they have humbled her who was set apart for pollution. 11 And one has committed abomination with his neighbor's wife, another has lewdly defiled his daughter-in-law, and another in you has humbled his sister, his father's daughter. 12 In you they have taken gifts to shed blood. You have taken interest and increase and you have greedily gained from your neighbors by extortion, and have forgotten me," says the Lord GOD.

13 "And behold, I have smitten my hand at your dishonest gain which you have made, and at your blood which has been in the midst of you. 14 Can your heart endure or can your hands be strong in the days that I shall deal with you? I, the LORD, have spoken it and will do it. 15 And I will scatter you among the heathen and disperse you in the countries, and I will consume your filthiness out of you. 16 And you shall be profaned in yourself in the sight of the heathen, and you shall know that I am the LORD."'"

17 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 18 "Son of man, the house of Israel has become dross to me. All of them are brass, tin, iron, and lead in the midst of the furnace. They are even the dross of silver. 19 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: 'Because you have all become dross, behold, therefore I will gather you into the midst of Jerusalem. 20 As they gather silver, brass, iron, lead, and tin into the midst of the furnace to blow the fire upon it to melt it, so I will gather you in my anger and in my fury, and I will leave you there and melt you. 21 Indeed, I will gather you and blow upon you in the fire of my wrath, and you shall be melted in the midst of it. 22 As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so you shall be melted in the midst of it. And you shall know that I, the LORD, have poured out my fury upon you.'"

23 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 24 "Son of man, say to her, 'You are the land that is not cleansed, nor rained upon in the day of indignation.' 25 There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst of her, like a roaring lion ravening the prey. They have devoured souls. They have taken the treasure and precious things. They have made her many widows in the midst of her. 26 Her priests have violated my law and have profaned my holy things. They have put no difference between the holy and profane, neither have they shown difference between the unclean and the clean. They have hid their eyes from my sabbaths and I am profaned among them. 27 Her princes in the midst of her are like wolves ravening the prey, shedding blood, and destroying souls to get dishonest gain. 28 And her prophets have daubed them with untempered mortar, seeing vanity and divining lies for them, saying, 'Thus says the Lord GOD,' when the LORD has not spoken. 29 The people of the land have used oppression, exercised robbery, and have oppressed the poor and needy. They have even oppressed the stranger wrongfully. 30 And I sought for a man among them who should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land so that I should not destroy it, but I found no one. 31 Therefore, I have poured out my indignation upon them. I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath. Their own way I have recompensed upon their heads," says the Lord GOD.

[#ezk023%breakable]
=== Chapter 23

[.outline.text-center]
_The lewdness of Aholah and Aholibah, 1-21. Aholibah is to be plagued by her lovers, 22-35. The prophet reproves the adulteries of them both, 36-44; and shows their judgments, 45-49._

1 The word of the LORD came again to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother, 3 And they committed lewd deeds in Egypt. They committed lewd deeds in their youth. Their breasts were pressed there, and they were first corrupted there. 4 And their names were Aholah the elder, and Aholibah her sister. And they were mine, and they bore sons and daughters. As for their names: Samaria is Aholah, and Jerusalem is Aholibah.

5 "And Aholah played the harlot when she was mine, and she doted on her lovers, on the Assyrians her neighbors. 6 They were clothed with blue, captains and rulers, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding upon horses. 7 Thus she committed her lewd deeds with them, with all those who were the chosen men of Assyria, and with all on whom she doted. With all their idols she defiled herself. 8 She did not leave her lewd deeds brought from Egypt. For in her youth they lay with her, and they first corrupted her and poured their impurities upon her. 9 Therefore, I have delivered her into the hand of her lovers, into the hand of the Assyrians, upon whom she doted. 10 These uncovered her nakedness. They took her sons and her daughters and slew her with the sword. And she became famous among women, for they had executed judgment upon her.

11 "And when her sister Aholibah saw this, she was more corrupt in her inordinate love than she was, and in her prostitutions more than her sister in her prostitutions. 12 She doted upon the Assyrians her neighbors, captains and rulers clothed most gorgeously, horsemen riding upon horses, all of them desirable young men. 13 Then I saw that she was defiled, that they both took one way. 14 So she increased her prostitutions, for when she saw men portrayed upon the wall, the images of the Chaldeans portrayed with vermilion, 15 Girded with girdles upon their loins and dyed turbans upon their heads, all of them princes to look to, after the manner of the Babylonians of Chaldea, the land of their nativity, 16 And as soon as she saw them with her eyes she doted upon them and sent messengers to them into Chaldea. 17 And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they defiled her with their lewdness. And when she was polluted with them, her mind was alienated from them. 18 Thus she disclosed her lewd deeds and exposed her nakedness. Then my mind was alienated from her, as my mind was alienated from her sister. 19 Yet she multiplied her prostitutions in calling to remembrance the days of her youth in which she had played the harlot in the land of Egypt, 20 For she doted upon their paramours, whose flesh is as the flesh of donkeys and whose issue is like the issue of horses. 21 Thus you called to remembrance the lewdness of your youth by being corrupted by the Egyptians in your youth.

22 "Therefore, O Aholibah, thus says the Lord GOD: 'Behold, I will raise up your lovers against you, from whom your mind is alienated, and I will bring them against you on every side: 23 The Babylonians, and all the Chaldeans, Pekod, Shoa, Koa, and all the Assyrians with them—all of them desirable young men, captains and rulers, great lords and renowned, all of them riding upon horses. 24 And they shall come against you with chariots, wagons, wheels, and with an assembly of people, which shall set against you buckler, shield, and helmet on every side. And I will set judgment before them, and they shall judge you according to their judgments. 25 And I will set my jealousy against you, and they shall deal furiously with you. They shall take away your nose and your ears, and your remnant shall fall by the sword. They shall take your sons and your daughters, and your remnant shall be devoured by the fire. 26 They shall also strip you of your clothes and take away your fair jewels. 27 Thus I will make your lewdness to cease from you, and your adultery brought from the land of Egypt, so that you shall not lift up your eyes to them nor remember Egypt anymore.' 28 For thus says the Lord GOD: 'Behold, I will deliver you into the hand of those whom you hate, into the hand of those from whom your mind is alienated. 29 And they shall treat you with hatred, take away all your labor, and leave you naked and bare. And the nakedness of your prostitutions shall be disclosed, both your lewdness and your prostitutions. 30 I will do these things to you because you have gone astray after the heathen and because you are polluted with their idols. 31 You have walked in the way of your sister; therefore, I will give her cup into your hand.' 32 "Thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|'You shall drink of your sister's cup deep and large. [.linebr]#/# +
You shall be treated with scorn and had in derision. [.linebr]#/# +
It contains much.

|
|33 You shall be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, [.linebr]#/# +
with the cup of astonishment and desolation, [.linebr]#/# +
with the cup of your sister Samaria.

|
|34 You shall even drink it and empty it to the dregs, [.linebr]#/# +
and you shall break its pieces [.linebr]#/# +
and pluck off your own breasts. [.linebr]#/# +
For I have spoken it,'
|===

says the Lord GOD. 35 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: 'Because you have forgotten me and cast me behind your back, therefore also bear your lewdness and your prostitutions.'"

36 The LORD said moreover to me, "Son of man, will you judge Aholah and Aholibah? Even declare to them their abominations. 37 For they have committed adultery, and blood is on their hands. They have committed adultery with their idols. They have also caused their sons, whom they bore to me, to pass through the fire to them to be devoured. 38 Moreover, they have done this to me: they have defiled my sanctuary in the same day and have profaned my sabbaths. 39 For when they had slain their children to their idols, then they came the same day into my sanctuary to profane it. Behold, thus they have done in the midst of my house.

40 "And furthermore, you have even sent for men to come from far, to whom a messenger was sent, and behold, they came. For them you washed yourself, painted your eyes, decked yourself with ornaments, 41 And sat upon a stately bed and a table prepared before it, upon which you have set my incense and my oil. 42 And a voice of a multitude being at ease was with her. And with the men of the common sort were brought Sabeans from the wilderness, who put bracelets upon their hands and beautiful crowns upon their heads.

43 "Then I said to her who was old in adulteries, 'Will they now commit lewd deeds with her, and she with them?' 44 Yet they went in to her, as they go in to a woman who plays the harlot. Thus they went in to Aholah and to Aholibah, the lewd women. 45 And the righteous men, they shall judge them after the manner of adulteresses and after the manner of women who shed blood, because they are adulteresses, and blood is on their hands.

46 "For thus says the Lord GOD: 'I will bring up a company upon them and will give them to trembling and plundering. 47 And the company shall stone them with stones and dispatch them with their swords. They shall slay their sons and their daughters and burn their houses with fire. 48 Thus I will cause lewdness to cease out of the land so that all women may be taught not to do after your lewdness. 49 And they shall recompense your lewdness upon you, and you shall bear the sins of your idols. And you shall know that I am the Lord GOD.'"

[#ezk024%breakable]
=== Chapter 24

[.outline.text-center]
_Under the parable of a boiling pot, 1-5, is shown the irrevocable destruction of Jerusalem, 6-14. By the sign of Ezekiel not mourning for the death of his wife, 15-18, is shown the calamity of the Jews to be beyond all sorrow, 19-27._

1 Again in the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, write for yourself the name of the day, even of this very day. The king of Babylon set himself against Jerusalem this very day. 3 And utter a parable to the rebellious house, and say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Set on a pot, set it on, [.linebr]#/# +
and also pour water into it.

|
|4 Gather its pieces into it, [.linebr]#/# +
even every good piece, [.linebr]#/# +
the thigh and the shoulder. [.linebr]#/# +
Fill it with the choice bones.

|
|5 Take the choice of the flock, [.linebr]#/# +
and also burn the bones under it. [.linebr]#/# +
Make it boil well, [.linebr]#/# +
and let them boil its bones in it."
|===

6 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Woe to the bloody city, [.linebr]#/# +
to the pot whose scum is therein, [.linebr]#/# +
and whose scum has not gone out of it! [.linebr]#/# +
Bring it out piece by piece. [.linebr]#/# +
Let no lot fall upon it.

|
|7 For her blood is in the midst of her. [.linebr]#/# +
She set it upon the top of a rock. [.linebr]#/# +
She did not pour it upon the ground [.linebr]#/# +
to cover it with dust.

|
|8 In order to cause fury to come up and to take vengeance, [.linebr]#/# +
I have set her blood upon the top of a rock [.linebr]#/# +
so that it should not be covered."
|===

9 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Woe to the bloody city! [.linebr]#/# +
I will even make the pile for fire great.

|
|10 Heap on wood, kindle the fire, [.linebr]#/# +
consume the flesh, [.linebr]#/# +
spice it well, [.linebr]#/# +
and let the bones be burned.

|
|11 Then set it empty upon its coals [.linebr]#/# +
so that its brass may be hot and may burn, [.linebr]#/# +
and that its filthiness may be melted in it [.linebr]#/# +
so that its scum may be consumed.

|
|12 She has wearied herself with lies, [.linebr]#/# +
and her great scum did not go forth out of her. [.linebr]#/# +
Her scum shall be in the fire.

|
|13 In your filthiness is lewdness. [.linebr]#/# +
Because I have purged you, [.linebr]#/# +
and you were not purged, [.linebr]#/# +
you shall not be purged from your filthiness anymore [.linebr]#/# +
until I have caused my fury to rest upon you.

|
|14 "I, the LORD, have spoken it. [.linebr]#/# +
It shall come to pass and I will do it. [.linebr]#/# +
I will not go back, neither will I spare, [.linebr]#/# +
neither will I repent. [.linebr]#/# +
According to your ways and according to your doings, [.linebr]#/# +
they shall judge you,"
|===

says the Lord GOD.'"

15 Also the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 16 "Son of man, behold, I take away from you the desire of your eyes with a stroke. Yet you shall not mourn nor weep, neither shall your tears run down. 17 Forbear to cry, make no mourning for the dead, bind the turban of your head upon you, put your shoes upon your feet, do not cover your lips, and do not eat the bread of men." 18 So I spoke to the people in the morning, and at evening my wife died. And I did in the morning as I was commanded. 19 And the people said to me, "Will you not tell us what these things are to us that you are doing?" 20 Then I answered them, "The word of the LORD came to me, saying, 21 'Speak to the house of Israel, "Thus says the Lord GOD: 'Behold, I will profane my sanctuary, the excellence of your strength, the desire of your eyes, and that which your soul pities. And your sons and your daughters whom you have left shall fall by the sword. 22 And you shall do as I have done. You shall not cover your lips nor eat the bread of men. 23 And your turbans shall be upon your heads and your shoes upon your feet. You shall not mourn nor weep, but you shall pine away for your iniquities and mourn toward one another. 24 Thus Ezekiel is a sign to you. According to all that he has done you shall do. And when this comes, you shall know that I am the Lord GOD.'"

25 'Also, son of man, shall it not be in the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and that on which they set their minds, their sons and their daughters, 26 That he who escapes in that day shall come to you to cause you to hear it with your ears? 27 In that day your mouth shall be opened to him who has escaped, and you shall speak and no longer be mute. And you shall be a sign to them. And they shall know that I am the LORD.'"

[#ezk025%breakable]
=== Chapter 25

[.outline.text-center]
_God's vengeance, for their insolence against the Jews, upon the Ammonites, 1-7; upon Moab and Seir, 8-11; upon Edom, 12-14; and upon the Philistines, 15-17._

1 The word of the LORD came again to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, set your face against the Ammonites and prophesy against them, 3 And say to the Ammonites, 'Hear the word of the Lord GOD. Thus says the Lord GOD: "Because you said, 'Aha,' against my sanctuary when it was profaned, and against the land of Israel when it was desolate, and against the house of Judah when they went into captivity, 4 Therefore behold, I will deliver you to the men of the east for a possession, and they shall set their palaces in you and make their dwellings in you. They shall eat your fruit and they shall drink your milk. 5 And I will make Rabbah a stable for camels and the Ammonites a couching-place for flocks. And you shall know that I am the LORD." 6 For thus says the Lord GOD: "Because you have clapped your hands and stamped with the feet and rejoiced in heart with all your contempt against the land of Israel, 7 Therefore behold, I will stretch out my hand upon you and will deliver you as plunder to the heathen. I will cut you off from the people and will cause you to perish out of the countries. I will destroy you. And you shall know that I am the LORD."

8 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Because Moab and Seir say, 'Behold, the house of Judah is like all the heathen,' 9 Therefore behold, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from his cities which are on his frontiers—Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kiriathaim—the glory of the country. 10 To the men of the east I will give them in possession, along with the Ammonites, so that the Ammonites may not be remembered among the nations. 11 And I will execute judgments upon Moab. And they shall know that I am the LORD."

12 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Because Edom has dealt against the house of Judah by taking vengeance and has greatly offended and revenged himself upon them," 13 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "I will also stretch out my hand upon Edom and will cut off man and beast from it. And I will make it desolate. From Teman even to Dedan they shall fall by the sword. 14 And I will lay my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my people Israel. And they shall do in Edom according to my anger and according to my fury, and they shall know my vengeance," says the Lord GOD.

15 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Because the Philistines have dealt by revenge and have taken vengeance with a despiteful heart to destroy it for the old hatred," 16 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I will stretch out my hand upon the Philistines, and I will cut off the Cherethims and destroy the remnant of the sea coast. 17 And I will execute great vengeance upon them with furious rebukes. And they shall know that I am the LORD when I lay my vengeance upon them."'"

[#ezk026%breakable]
=== Chapter 26

[.outline.text-center]
_Tyre, for insulting against Jerusalem, is threatened with destruction, 1-6. The power of Nebuchadnezzar against her, 7-14. The mourning and astonishment of the sea at her fall, 15-21._

1 And it came to pass in the eleventh year, on the first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, because Tyre has said against Jerusalem, 'Aha! She who was the gates of the people is broken. She has turned to me. I shall be replenished. Now she is laid waste,' 3 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: 'Behold, I am against you, O Tyre, and will cause many nations to come up against you, as the sea causes its waves to come up. 4 And they shall destroy the walls of Tyre and break down her towers. I will also scrape her dust from her and make her like the top of a rock. 5 It shall be a place for the spreading of nets in the midst of the sea. For I have spoken it,' says the Lord GOD, 'and it shall become plunder to the nations. 6 And her daughters who are in the field shall be slain by the sword. And they shall know that I am the LORD.'"

7 For thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, upon Tyre I will bring Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, a king of kings, from the north with horses, with chariots, with horsemen, companies, and many people. 8 He shall slay your daughters in the field with the sword. And he shall make a fort against you, cast a siege-mound against you, and lift up the buckler against you. 9 And he shall set battering rams of war against your walls, and with his axes he shall break down your towers. 10 By reason of the abundance of his horses their dust shall cover you. Your walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen, of the wheels, and of the chariots when he enters into your gates as men enter into a city in which a breach is made. 11 With the hooves of his horses he shall tread down all your streets. He shall slay your people by the sword, and your strong garrisons shall go down to the ground. 12 And they shall make loot of your riches and make plunder of your merchandise. And they shall break down your walls and destroy your pleasant houses. And they shall lay your stones and your timber and your dust in the midst of the water. 13 And I will cause the noise of your songs to cease, and the sound of your harps shall no longer be heard. 14 And I will make you like the top of a rock. You shall be a place to spread nets upon. You shall be built no more. For I, the LORD, have spoken it," says the Lord GOD.

15 Thus says the Lord GOD to Tyre: "Shall the coastlands not shake at the sound of your fall when the wounded cry, when the slaughter is made in the midst of you? 16 Then all the princes of the sea shall come down from their thrones, lay away their robes, and take off their embroidered garments. They shall clothe themselves with trembling. They shall sit upon the ground and shall tremble at every moment and be astonished at you. 17 And they shall take up a lamentation for you, and say to you,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|'How you are destroyed, [.linebr]#/# +
O renowned city [.linebr]#/# +
inhabited by sea-faring men— [.linebr]#/# +
she who was strong in the sea, [.linebr]#/# +
along with her inhabitants, [.linebr]#/# +
who cause their terror to be [.linebr]#/# +
on all who dwelt there!

|
|18 Now the coastlands shall tremble [.linebr]#/# +
in the day of your fall. [.linebr]#/# +
Even the coastlands that are by the sea [.linebr]#/# +
shall be disturbed at your departure.'"
|===

19 For thus says the Lord GOD: "When I make you a desolate city, like the cities that are not inhabited, when I bring up the deep upon you and great waters shall cover you, 20 Then I will bring you down with those who descend into the pit, with the people of old time. I will set you in the low parts of the earth, in places desolate of old, with those who go down to the pit, so that you are not inhabited, but I shall set glory in the land of the living. 21 I will make you a terror, and you shall be no more. Though you shall be sought for, yet you shall never be found again," says the Lord GOD.

[#ezk027%breakable]
=== Chapter 27

[.outline.text-center]
_The riches and commerce of Tyre, 1-25. The great and irrecoverable fall thereof, 26-36._

1 The word of the LORD came to me again, saying, 2 "Now, son of man, take up a lamentation for Tyre, 3 And say to Tyre, who is situated at the entry of the sea, who is a merchant of the people for many coastlands, 'Thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"O Tyre, you have said, [.linebr]#/# +
'I am of perfect beauty.'

|
|4 Your borders are in the midst of the seas. [.linebr]#/# +
Your builders have perfected your beauty.

|
|5 They have made all your ship-boards [.linebr]#/# +
of fir-trees of Senir. [.linebr]#/# +
They have taken cedars from Lebanon [.linebr]#/# +
to make masts for you.

|
|6 Of the oaks of Bashan [.linebr]#/# +
they have made your oars. [.linebr]#/# +
The company of the Ashurites [.linebr]#/# +
have made your benches of ivory, [.linebr]#/# +
brought out of the coastlands of Chittim.

|
|7 Fine linen with embroidered work from Egypt [.linebr]#/# +
was that which you spread forth [.linebr]#/# +
to be your sail. [.linebr]#/# +
Blue and purple from the coastlands of Elishah [.linebr]#/# +
was that which covered you.

|
|8 The inhabitants of Zidon and Arvad [.linebr]#/# +
were your mariners. [.linebr]#/# +
Your wise men, O Tyre, who were in you, [.linebr]#/# +
were your pilots.

|
|9 The ancients of Gebal and its wise men [.linebr]#/# +
were in you as your caulkers. [.linebr]#/# +
All the ships of the sea with their mariners were in you [.linebr]#/# +
to occupy your merchandise.
|===

10 "They of Persia, of Lud, and of Phut were in your army, your military men. They hung the shield and helmet in you. They set forth your splendor. 11 The men of Arvad with your army were upon your walls on all sides, and the Gammadims were in your towers. They hung their shields upon your walls on every side. They have made your beauty perfect.

12 "Tarshish was your merchant by reason of the multitude of all kind of riches. With silver, iron, tin, and lead, they traded in your fairs. 13 Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, they were your merchants. They traded in the persons of men and vessels of brass in your market. 14 They of the house of Togarmah traded in your fairs with horses, horsemen, and mules. 15 The men of Dedan were your merchants. Many coastlands were the merchandise of your hand. They brought you in exchange horns of ivory and ebony. 16 Syria was your merchant by reason of the multitude of the wares of your making. They occupied in your fairs with emeralds, purple, embroidered work, fine linen, coral, and agate. 17 Judah, and the land of Israel, they were your merchants. They traded in your market in wheat of Minnith, Pannag, honey, oil, and balm. 18 Damascus was your merchant in the multitude of the wares of your making, for the multitude of all riches, in the wine of Helbon and white wool. 19 Dan and also Javan going to and fro occupied in your fairs. Bright iron, cassia, and calamus were in your market. 20 Dedan was your merchant in precious clothes for chariots. 21 Arabia, and all the princes of Kedar, they occupied with you in lambs, rams, and goats. In these they were your merchants. 22 The merchants of Sheba and Raamah, they were your merchants. They occupied in your fairs with chief of all spices, with all precious stones and gold. 23 Haran, Canneh, Eden, the merchants of Sheba, Asshur, and Chilmad were your merchants. 24 These were your merchants in all sorts of things, in blue clothes, embroidered work, and in chests of rich apparel, bound with cords and made of cedar, among your merchandise.

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|25 "The ships of Tarshish sang of you in your market. [.linebr]#/# +
And you were replenished and made very glorious [.linebr]#/# +
in the midst of the seas.

|
|26 Your rowers have brought you [.linebr]#/# +
into great waters. [.linebr]#/# +
The east wind has broken you [.linebr]#/# +
in the midst of the seas.

|
|27 Your riches, your fairs, your merchandise, [.linebr]#/# +
your mariners, your pilots, [.linebr]#/# +
your caulkers, the occupiers of your merchandise, [.linebr]#/# +
and all your military men, who are in you [.linebr]#/# +
and in all your company which is in the midst of you, [.linebr]#/# +
shall fall into the midst of the seas [.linebr]#/# +
in the day of your ruin.

|
|28 The suburbs shall shake [.linebr]#/# +
at the sound of the cry of your pilots.

|
|29 And all who handle the oar, [.linebr]#/# +
the mariners, and all the pilots of the sea [.linebr]#/# +
shall come down from their ships. [.linebr]#/# +
They shall stand upon the land.

|
|30 They shall cause their voice to be heard against you [.linebr]#/# +
and shall cry bitterly. [.linebr]#/# +
They shall cast up dust upon their heads. [.linebr]#/# +
They shall wallow themselves in the ashes.

|
|31 And they shall make themselves utterly bald for you [.linebr]#/# +
and gird themselves with sackcloth. [.linebr]#/# +
They shall weep for you [.linebr]#/# +
with bitterness of heart [.linebr]#/# +
and bitter wailing.

|
|32 And in their wailing [.linebr]#/# +
they shall take up a lamentation for you [.linebr]#/# +
and lament over you, saying, [.linebr]#/# +
'What city is like Tyre, [.linebr]#/# +
like the destroyed one [.linebr]#/# +
in the midst of the sea?

|
|33 When your wares went forth out of the seas, [.linebr]#/# +
you filled many people. [.linebr]#/# +
You enriched the kings of the earth [.linebr]#/# +
with the multitude of your riches and of your merchandise.

|
|34 In the time when you are broken by the seas [.linebr]#/# +
in the depths of the waters, [.linebr]#/# +
your merchandise and all your company [.linebr]#/# +
in the midst of you shall fall.

|
|35 All the inhabitants of the coastlands [.linebr]#/# +
shall be astonished at you, [.linebr]#/# +
and their kings shall be terribly afraid. [.linebr]#/# +
They shall be troubled in their countenance.

|
|36 The merchants among the people [.linebr]#/# +
shall hiss at you. [.linebr]#/# +
You shall be a terror, [.linebr]#/# +
and shall be no more forever.'"'"
|===

[#ezk028%breakable]
=== Chapter 28

[.outline.text-center]
_God's judgment upon the prince of Tyre for his sacrilegious pride, 1-10. A lamentation for his great glory corrupted by sin, 11-19. The judgment of Zidon, 20-23. The restoration of Israel, 24-26._

1 The word of the LORD came again to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, say to the prince of Tyre, 'Thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Because your heart is lifted up, [.linebr]#/# +
you have said, 'I am a god. [.linebr]#/# +
I sit in the seat of God, [.linebr]#/# +
in the midst of the seas,' [.linebr]#/# +
yet you are a man and not God, [.linebr]#/# +
though you set your heart as the heart of God.

|
|3 Behold, you are wiser than Daniel. [.linebr]#/# +
There is no secret that they can hide from you.

|
|4 With your wisdom and with your understanding [.linebr]#/# +
you have gained riches for yourself [.linebr]#/# +
and have gained gold and silver [.linebr]#/# +
into your treasures.

|
|5 By your great wisdom and by your traffic [.linebr]#/# +
you have increased your riches, [.linebr]#/# +
and your heart is lifted up because of your riches."
|===

6 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Because you have set your heart [.linebr]#/# +
as the heart of God,

|
|7 Therefore behold, I will bring strangers upon you, [.linebr]#/# +
the terrible of the nations. [.linebr]#/# +
And they shall draw their swords [.linebr]#/# +
against the beauty of your wisdom, [.linebr]#/# +
and they shall defile your brightness.

|
|8 They shall bring you down to the pit, [.linebr]#/# +
and you shall die the deaths of those who are slain [.linebr]#/# +
in the midst of the seas.

|
|9 Will you still say before him who slays you, [.linebr]#/# +
'I am God'? [.linebr]#/# +
But you shall be a man and no god [.linebr]#/# +
in the hand of him who slays you.

|
|10 You shall die the deaths of the uncircumcised [.linebr]#/# +
by the hand of strangers. [.linebr]#/# +
For I have spoken it,"
|===

says the Lord GOD.'"

11 Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 12 "Son of man, take up a lamentation upon the king of Tyre, and say to him, 'Thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"You seal up the sum, [.linebr]#/# +
full of wisdom and perfect in beauty.

|
|13 You have been in Eden the garden of God. [.linebr]#/# +
Every precious stone was your covering: [.linebr]#/# +
the sardius, topaz, the diamond, [.linebr]#/# +
the beryl, the onyx, the jasper, [.linebr]#/# +
the sapphire, the emerald, the carbuncle, and gold. [.linebr]#/# +
The workmanship of your tambourines and of your pipes [.linebr]#/# +
was prepared in you in the day that you were created.

|
|14 You are the anointed cherub who covers, [.linebr]#/# +
and I have set you so. [.linebr]#/# +
You were upon the holy mountain of God. [.linebr]#/# +
You have walked up and down [.linebr]#/# +
in the midst of the stones of fire.

|
|15 You were perfect in your ways [.linebr]#/# +
from the day that you were created, [.linebr]#/# +
until iniquity was found in you.

|
|16 By the multitude of your merchandise [.linebr]#/# +
they have filled the midst of you with violence, [.linebr]#/# +
and you have sinned; [.linebr]#/# +
therefore, I will cast you as profane [.linebr]#/# +
out of the mountain of God. [.linebr]#/# +
And I will destroy you, O covering cherub, [.linebr]#/# +
from the midst of the stones of fire.

|
|17 Your heart was lifted up because of your beauty. [.linebr]#/# +
You have corrupted your wisdom [.linebr]#/# +
by reason of your brightness. [.linebr]#/# +
I will cast you to the ground, [.linebr]#/# +
I will lay you before kings, [.linebr]#/# +
so that they may behold you.

|
|18 You have defiled your sanctuaries [.linebr]#/# +
by the multitude of your iniquities, [.linebr]#/# +
by the iniquity of your traffic; [.linebr]#/# +
therefore, I will bring forth a fire from the midst of you. [.linebr]#/# +
It shall devour you, [.linebr]#/# +
and I will bring you to ashes upon the earth [.linebr]#/# +
in the sight of all those who behold you.

|
|19 All those who know you among the people [.linebr]#/# +
shall be astonished at you. [.linebr]#/# +
You shall be a terror, [.linebr]#/# +
and shall be no more forever."'"
|===

20 Again the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 21 "Son of man, set your face against Zidon and prophesy against it, 22 And say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Behold, I am against you, O Zidon, [.linebr]#/# +
and I will be glorified in the midst of you. [.linebr]#/# +
And they shall know that I am the LORD [.linebr]#/# +
when I have executed judgments in her [.linebr]#/# +
and have been sanctified in her.

|
|23 For I will send into her pestilence, [.linebr]#/# +
and blood into her streets, [.linebr]#/# +
and the wounded shall be judged in the midst of her [.linebr]#/# +
by the sword upon her on every side. [.linebr]#/# +
And they shall know that I am the LORD.
|===

24 And there shall no more be a pricking brier to the house of Israel, nor any grieving thorn of all who are around them who despised them. And they shall know that I am the Lord GOD."

25 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "When I have gathered the house of Israel from the people among whom they are scattered and have been sanctified in them in the sight of the heathen, they shall dwell in their land that I have given to my servant Jacob. 26 And they shall dwell safely therein, and shall build houses and plant vineyards. They shall even dwell with confidence when I have executed judgments upon all those around them who despise them. And they shall know that I am the LORD their God."'"

[#ezk029%breakable]
=== Chapter 29

[.outline.text-center]
_The judgment of Pharaoh for his treachery to Israel, 1-7. The desolation of Egypt, 8-12. The restoration thereof after forty years, 13-16. Egypt shall be Nebuchadnezzar's reward, 17-20. Israel shall be restored, 21._

1 In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh king of Egypt and prophesy against him and against all Egypt. 3 Speak, and say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Behold, I am against you, [.linebr]#/# +
Pharaoh king of Egypt, [.linebr]#/# +
the great dragon that lies [.linebr]#/# +
in the midst of his rivers, [.linebr]#/# +
which has said, 'My river is my own, [.linebr]#/# +
and I have made it for myself.'

|
|4 But I will put hooks in your jaws, [.linebr]#/# +
and I will cause the fish of your rivers [.linebr]#/# +
to stick to your scales. [.linebr]#/# +
And I will bring you out [.linebr]#/# +
of the midst of your rivers, [.linebr]#/# +
and all the fish of your rivers [.linebr]#/# +
shall stick to your scales.

|
|5 And I will leave you thrown into the wilderness— [.linebr]#/# +
you and all the fish of your rivers. [.linebr]#/# +
You shall fall upon the open fields. [.linebr]#/# +
You shall not be brought together, nor gathered. [.linebr]#/# +
I have given you as food [.linebr]#/# +
to the beasts of the field [.linebr]#/# +
and to the birds of heaven.

|
|6 And all the inhabitants of Egypt [.linebr]#/# +
shall know that I am the LORD, [.linebr]#/# +
because they have been a staff of reed [.linebr]#/# +
to the house of Israel.

|
|7 When they took hold of you by your hand, [.linebr]#/# +
you broke and rent all their shoulders. [.linebr]#/# +
And when they leaned upon you, [.linebr]#/# +
you broke and made all their loins to be at a stand."
|===

8 'Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I will bring a sword upon you and cut off man and beast out of you. 9 And the land of Egypt shall be desolate and waste. And they shall know that I am the LORD. Because he has said, 'The river is mine, and I have made it,' 10 Therefore behold, I am against you and against your rivers, and I will make the land of Egypt utterly waste and desolate, from the tower of Syene even to the border of Cush. 11 No foot of man shall pass through it, no foot of beast shall pass through it, neither shall it be inhabited for forty years. 12 And I will make the land of Egypt desolate in the midst of the countries that are desolate, and her cities among the cities that are laid waste shall be desolate for forty years. And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them through the countries."

13 'Yet thus says the Lord GOD: "At the end of forty years I will gather the Egyptians from the people where they were scattered. 14 And I will bring back the captivity of Egypt and cause them to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of their habitation, and they shall be a base kingdom there. 15 It shall be the basest of the kingdoms. It shall not exalt itself anymore above the nations, for I will diminish them so that they shall no longer rule over the nations. 16 And it shall no longer be the confidence of the house of Israel, which brings their iniquity to remembrance when they look after them. But they shall know that I am the Lord GOD."'"

17 And it came to pass in the twenty-seventh year, in the first month, on the first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 18 "Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon caused his army to serve a great service against Tyre. Every head was made bald and every shoulder was peeled. Yet neither he nor his army got wages from Tyre for the service that he had served against it." 19 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I will give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he shall take her multitude, take her loot, and take her plunder, and it shall be the wages for his army. 20 I have given him the land of Egypt for his labor with which he served against it, because they wrought for me," says the Lord GOD.

21 "In that day I will cause the horn of the house of Israel to bud forth, and I will give you the opening of the mouth in the midst of them. And they shall know that I am the LORD."

[#ezk030%breakable]
=== Chapter 30

[.outline.text-center]
_The desolation of Egypt and her helpers, 1-19. The arm of Babylon shall be strengthened to break the arm of Egypt, 20-26._

1 The word of the LORD came to me again, saying, 2 "Son of man, prophesy and say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Howl, 'Alas the day!'

|
|3 For the day is near, [.linebr]#/# +
even the day of the LORD is near, [.linebr]#/# +
a cloudy day. [.linebr]#/# +
It shall be the time of the heathen.

|
|4 And the sword shall come upon Egypt [.linebr]#/# +
and great pain shall be in Cush [.linebr]#/# +
when the slain fall in Egypt [.linebr]#/# +
and they take away her multitude [.linebr]#/# +
and her foundations are broken down.

|
|5 Cush, Libya, Lydia, [.linebr]#/# +
all the mingled people, [.linebr]#/# +
Kub, and the men of the land that is in league [.linebr]#/# +
shall fall with them by the sword."
|===

6 'Thus says the LORD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"They also who uphold Egypt shall fall, [.linebr]#/# +
and the pride of her power shall come down. [.linebr]#/# +
From the tower of Syene [.linebr]#/# +
they shall fall in it by the sword,"
|===

says the Lord GOD.

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|7 "And they shall be desolate [.linebr]#/# +
in the midst of the countries that are desolate, [.linebr]#/# +
and her cities shall be [.linebr]#/# +
in the midst of the cities that are wasted.

|
|8 And they shall know that I am the LORD [.linebr]#/# +
when I have set a fire in Egypt [.linebr]#/# +
and when all her helpers are destroyed.

|
|9 In that day messengers shall go forth from me in ships [.linebr]#/# +
to make the careless Cushites afraid, [.linebr]#/# +
and great pain shall come upon them, [.linebr]#/# +
as in the day of Egypt, [.linebr]#/# +
for behold, it comes."
|===

10 'Thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"I will also make the multitude of Egypt to cease [.linebr]#/# +
by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.

|
|11 He and his people with him, the terrible of the nations, [.linebr]#/# +
shall be brought to destroy the land. [.linebr]#/# +
And they shall draw their swords against Egypt [.linebr]#/# +
and fill the land with the slain.

|
|12 And I will make the rivers dry, [.linebr]#/# +
and sell the land into the hand of the wicked. [.linebr]#/# +
And I will make the land desolate [.linebr]#/# +
and all that is in it by the hand of strangers. [.linebr]#/# +
I, the LORD, have spoken it."
|===

13 Thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"I will also destroy the idols, [.linebr]#/# +
and I will cause their images to cease out of Noph. [.linebr]#/# +
And there shall no longer be [.linebr]#/# +
a prince of the land of Egypt. [.linebr]#/# +
And I will put a fear in the land of Egypt.

|
|14 And I will make Pathros desolate, [.linebr]#/# +
set fire in Zoan, [.linebr]#/# +
and execute judgments in No.

|
|15 And I will pour my fury upon Sin, [.linebr]#/# +
the strength of Egypt, [.linebr]#/# +
and I will cut off the multitude of No.

|
|16 And I will set fire in Egypt. [.linebr]#/# +
Sin shall have great pain, [.linebr]#/# +
No shall be rent apart, [.linebr]#/# +
and Noph shall have distresses daily.

|
|17 The young men of Aven and of Pibeseth [.linebr]#/# +
shall fall by the sword. [.linebr]#/# +
And these cities shall go into captivity.

|
|18 Also at Tehaphnehes the day shall be darkened [.linebr]#/# +
when I break the yokes of Egypt there. [.linebr]#/# +
And the pomp of her strength shall cease in her. [.linebr]#/# +
As for her, a cloud shall cover her, [.linebr]#/# +
and her daughters shall go into captivity.

|
|19 Thus I will execute judgments in Egypt. [.linebr]#/# +
And they shall know that I am the LORD."'"
|===

20 And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, that the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 21 "Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and behold, it shall not be bound up to be healed nor a bandage put to it to bind it to make it strong to hold the sword. 22 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: 'Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt and will break his arms, both the strong and that which was broken, and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand. 23 And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them through the countries. 24 And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put my sword in his hand, but I will break Pharaoh's arms, and he shall groan before him with the groanings of a deadly wounded man. 25 But I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down. And they shall know that I am the LORD when I put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon and he stretches it out upon the land of Egypt. 26 And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the countries. And they shall know that I am the LORD.'"

[#ezk031%breakable]
=== Chapter 31

[.outline.text-center]
_A relation to Pharaoh, 1, 2, of the glory of Assyria, 3-9, and the fall thereof for pride, 10-17. The similar destruction of Egypt, 18._

1 And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the third month, on the first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, say to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to his multitude,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|'Whom are you like in your greatness?

|
|3 Behold, the Assyrian was a cedar in Lebanon [.linebr]#/# +
with fair branches and with a shady cover [.linebr]#/# +
and of a high stature. [.linebr]#/# +
And his top was among the thick boughs.

|
|4 The waters made him great, [.linebr]#/# +
the deep set him up on high. [.linebr]#/# +
Her rivers ran around his planting-place [.linebr]#/# +
and she sent out her little rivers [.linebr]#/# +
to all the trees of the field.

|
|5 Therefore, his height was exalted [.linebr]#/# +
above all the trees of the field. [.linebr]#/# +
And his boughs were multiplied [.linebr]#/# +
and his branches became long [.linebr]#/# +
because of the multitude of waters [.linebr]#/# +
when he shot forth.

|
|6 All the birds of heaven made [.linebr]#/# +
their nests in his boughs, [.linebr]#/# +
and under his branches [.linebr]#/# +
all the beasts of the field [.linebr]#/# +
brought forth their young, [.linebr]#/# +
and under his shade [.linebr]#/# +
all great nations dwelt.

|
|7 Thus he was fair in his greatness, [.linebr]#/# +
in the length of his branches, [.linebr]#/# +
for his root was by great waters.

|
|8 The cedars in the garden of God could not hide him. [.linebr]#/# +
The fir-trees were not like his boughs [.linebr]#/# +
and the plane-trees were not like his branches. [.linebr]#/# +
No tree in the garden of God [.linebr]#/# +
was like him in his beauty.

|
|9 I have made him fair [.linebr]#/# +
by the multitude of his branches [.linebr]#/# +
so that all the trees of Eden [.linebr]#/# +
that were in the garden of God envied him.
|===

10 'Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "Because you have lifted up yourself in height, and he has shot up his top among the thick boughs and his heart is lifted up in his height, 11 I have therefore delivered him into the hand of the mighty one of the heathen. He shall surely deal with him. I have driven him out for his wickedness. 12 And strangers, the terrible of the nations, have cut him off and have left him. Upon the mountains and in all the valleys his branches have fallen, and his boughs are broken by all the rivers of the land. And all the people of the earth have gone down from his shadow and have left him. 13 Upon his ruin all the birds of the heaven shall remain, and all the beasts of the field shall be upon his branches, 14 To the end that none of all the trees by the waters shall exalt themselves for their height, nor shoot up their top among the thick boughs, nor their trees stand up in their height, even all that drink water. For they are all delivered to death, to the nether parts of the earth, in the midst of the children of men, with those who go down to the pit."

15 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "In the day when he went down to the grave I caused a mourning. I covered the deep for him and restrained its floods, and the great waters were stayed. And I caused Lebanon to mourn for him, and all the trees of the field fainted for him. 16 I made the nations to shake at the sound of his fall when I cast him down to the grave with those who descend into the pit. And all the trees of Eden, the choice and best of Lebanon, all that drink water, shall be comforted in the nether parts of the earth. 17 They also went down into the grave with him to those who are slain with the sword, even those who were his arm, who dwelt under his shadow in the midst of the heathen.

18 "To whom are you thus like in glory and in greatness among the trees of Eden? Yet you shall be brought down with the trees of Eden to the nether parts of the earth. You shall lie in the midst of the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword. This is Pharaoh and all his multitude,"' says the Lord GOD."

[#ezk032%breakable]
=== Chapter 32

[.outline.text-center]
_A lamentation for the fearful fall of Egypt, 1-10. The sword of Babylon shall destroy it, 11-16. It shall be brought down to hell, among all the uncircumcised nations, 17-32._

1 And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, take up a lamentation for Pharaoh king of Egypt, and say to him,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|'You are like a young lion of the nations [.linebr]#/# +
and you are as a dragon in the seas. [.linebr]#/# +
And you came forth with your rivers [.linebr]#/# +
and disturbed the waters with your feet [.linebr]#/# +
and rendered their rivers foul.'"
|===

3 Thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"I will therefore spread out my net over you [.linebr]#/# +
with a company of many people, [.linebr]#/# +
and they shall bring you up in my net.

|
|4 Then I will leave you upon the land [.linebr]#/# +
and will cast you forth upon the open field. [.linebr]#/# +
And I will cause all the birds of the heaven [.linebr]#/# +
to remain upon you [.linebr]#/# +
and will fill the beasts of the whole earth with you.

|
|5 And I will lay your flesh upon the mountains [.linebr]#/# +
and fill the valleys with your height.

|
|6 I will also water with your blood [.linebr]#/# +
the land in which you swim, [.linebr]#/# +
even to the mountains. [.linebr]#/# +
And the rivers shall be full of you.

|
|7 And when I extinguish you, [.linebr]#/# +
I will cover the heaven [.linebr]#/# +
and make the stars thereof dark. [.linebr]#/# +
I will cover the sun with a cloud [.linebr]#/# +
and the moon shall not give her light.

|
|8 All the bright lights of heaven [.linebr]#/# +
I will make dark over you, [.linebr]#/# +
and set darkness upon your land,"
|===

says the Lord GOD.

9 "I will also vex the hearts of many people when I bring your destruction among the nations into the countries which you have not known. 10 Indeed, I will make many people amazed at you, and their kings shall be horribly afraid for you when I brandish my sword before them. And they shall tremble at every moment, every man for his own life, in the day of your fall."

11 For thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"The sword of the king of Babylon [.linebr]#/# +
shall come upon you.

|
|12 By the swords of the mighty [.linebr]#/# +
I will cause your multitude to fall, [.linebr]#/# +
the terrible of the nations, all of them. [.linebr]#/# +
And they shall lay the pomp of Egypt to waste, [.linebr]#/# +
and all its multitude shall be destroyed.

|
|13 I will also destroy all its beasts [.linebr]#/# +
from beside the great waters, [.linebr]#/# +
neither shall the foot of man disturb them anymore, [.linebr]#/# +
nor the hooves of beasts disturb them.

|
|14 Then I will make their waters deep [.linebr]#/# +
and cause their rivers to run like oil,"
|===

says the Lord GOD.

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|15 "When I make the land of Egypt desolate [.linebr]#/# +
and the country is destitute of that of which it was full, [.linebr]#/# +
when I smite all those who dwell in it, [.linebr]#/# +
they shall know that I am the LORD.

|
|16 "This is the lamentation with which they shall lament her. [.linebr]#/# +
The daughters of the nations shall lament her. [.linebr]#/# +
They shall lament for her, [.linebr]#/# +
even for Egypt and for all her multitude,"
|===

says the Lord GOD.

17 It came to pass also in the twelfth year, on the fifteenth day of the month, that the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 18 "Son of man, wail for the multitude of Egypt and cast them down, even her and the daughters of the famous nations, to the nether parts of the earth with those who go down into the pit.

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|19 'Whom do you pass in beauty? [.linebr]#/# +
Go down, and be laid with the uncircumcised.'
|===

20 "They shall fall in the midst of those who are slain by the sword. She is delivered to the sword. Draw her and all her multitudes. 21 The strong among the mighty shall speak to him out of the midst of the grave with those who help him, 'They have gone down. They lie uncircumcised, slain by the sword.'

22 "Asshur is there and all her company. His graves are around him. All of them are slain, fallen by the sword, 23 Whose graves are set in the sides of the pit, and her company is around her grave. All of them are slain, fallen by the sword, who caused terror in the land of the living.

24 "There is Elam and all her multitude around her grave. All of them are slain, fallen by the sword, who have gone down uncircumcised into the nether parts of the earth, who caused their terror in the land of the living. Yet they have borne their shame with those who go down to the pit. 25 They have set her a bed in the midst of the slain with all her multitude. Her graves are around him. All of them are uncircumcised, slain by the sword. Though their terror was caused in the land of the living, yet they have borne their shame with those who go down to the pit. He is put in the midst of those who are slain.

26 "There is Meshech, Tubal, and all her multitude. Her graves are around him. All of them are uncircumcised, slain by the sword, though they caused their terror in the land of the living. 27 And they shall not lie with the mighty who are fallen among the uncircumcised, who have gone down to the grave with their weapons of war. And they have laid their swords under their heads, but their iniquities shall be upon their bones, though they were the terror of the mighty in the land of the living. 28 Indeed, you shall be broken in the midst of the uncircumcised and shall lie with those who are slain with the sword.

29 "There is Edom, her kings, and all her princes, who with their might are laid by those who were slain by the sword. They shall lie with the uncircumcised and with those who go down to the pit.

30 "There are the princes of the north—all of them and all the Zidonians—who have gone down with the slain. With their terror they are ashamed of their might, and they lie uncircumcised with those who are slain by the sword, and bear their shame with those who go down to the pit.

31 "Pharaoh shall see them and shall be comforted over all his multitude, even Pharaoh and all his army slain by the sword," says the Lord GOD. 32 "For I have caused my terror in the land of the living. And he shall be laid in the midst of the uncircumcised with those who are slain with the sword, even Pharaoh and all his multitude," says the Lord GOD.

[#ezk033%breakable]
=== Chapter 33

[.outline.text-center]
_According to the duty of a watchman in warning the people, 1-6, Ezekiel is admonished of his duty, 7-9. God shows the justice of his ways toward the penitent and toward revolters, 10-16. He maintains his justice, 17-20. Upon the news of the taking of Jerusalem he prophesies the desolation of the land, 21-29. God's judgment upon the mockers of the prophets, 30-33._

1 Again the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, speak to the children of your people, and say to them, 'When I bring the sword upon a land, if the people of the land take a man from their borders and set him for their watchman, 3 If when he sees the sword come upon the land, he shall blow the trumpet and warn the people. 4 Then whoever hears the sound of the trumpet and does not take warning, if the sword comes and takes him away, his blood shall be upon his own head. 5 He heard the sound of the trumpet and did not take warning. His blood shall be upon him. But he who takes warning shall deliver his soul. 6 But if the watchman sees the sword come and does not blow the trumpet, and the people are not warned, if the sword comes and takes any person from among them, he is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at the watchman's hand.'

7 "So you, O son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel; therefore, you shall hear the word from my mouth and give them warning from me. 8 When I say to the wicked, 'O wicked man, you shall surely die,' if you do not speak to warn the wicked from his way, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand. 9 Nevertheless, if you warn the wicked of his way to turn from it, if he does not turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity, but you have delivered your soul.

10 "Therefore, O son of man, speak to the house of Israel, 'In this manner you speak, saying, "If our transgressions and our sins are upon us and we pine away in them, how should we then live?"' 11 Say to them, 'As I live,' says the Lord GOD, 'I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked should turn from his way and live. Turn, turn from your evil ways. For why will you die, O house of Israel?' 12 Therefore, son of man, say to the children of your people, 'The righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him in the day of his transgression. As for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall by it in the day that he turns from his wickedness, neither shall the righteous be able to live for his righteousness in the day that he sins.' 13 When I say to the righteous that he shall surely live, if he trusts in his own righteousness and commits iniquity, all his righteousnesses shall not be remembered, but for his iniquity that he has committed, he shall die for it. 14 Again, when I say to the wicked, 'You shall surely die,' if he turns from his sin and does that which is lawful and right, 15 If the wicked restores the pledge, gives back that which he had robbed, and walks in the statutes of life without committing iniquity, he shall surely live and not die. 16 None of his sins that he has committed shall be mentioned to him. He has done that which is lawful and right. He shall surely live.

17 "Yet the children of your people say, 'The way of the Lord is not equal.' But as for them, their way is not equal. 18 When the righteous turns from his righteousness and commits iniquity, for that he shall even die. 19 But if the wicked turns from his wickedness and does that which is lawful and right, for that he shall live. 20 Yet you say, 'The way of the Lord is not equal.' O house of Israel, I will judge each of you after his ways."

21 And it came to pass in the twelfth year of our captivity, in the tenth month, on the fifth day of the month, that someone who had escaped out of Jerusalem came to me, saying, "The city is smitten." 22 Now the hand of the LORD was upon me in the evening before he who had escaped came, and he had opened my mouth before he came to me in the morning. And my mouth was opened and I was no longer mute.

23 Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 24 "Son of man, those who inhabit those wastes of the land of Israel speak, saying, 'Abraham was one, and he inherited the land, but we are many. The land is given to us for an inheritance.' 25 Therefore, say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "You eat with the blood, lift up your eyes toward your idols, and shed blood. And shall you possess the land? 26 You stand upon your sword, you work abomination, and each of you defiles his neighbor's wife. And shall you possess the land?"' 27 Say thus to them: 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "As I live, surely those who are in the wastes shall fall by the sword, and him who is in the open field I will give to the beasts to be devoured, and those who are in the forts and in the caves shall die by the pestilence. 28 For I will lay the land most desolate, and the pomp of her strength shall cease, and the mountains of Israel shall be desolate, so that no one shall pass through. 29 Then they shall know that I am the LORD when I have laid the land most desolate because of all their abominations which they have committed."'

30 "Also, son of man, the children of your people are still talking about you by the walls and in the doors of the houses and speak to one another, each to his brother, saying, 'Come, I pray you, and hear what the word is that comes forth from the LORD.' 31 And they come to you as the people come, and they sit before you as my people, and they hear your words, but they will not do them. For with their mouth they show much love, but their heart goes after their covetousness. 32 And behold, you are to them like a very lovely song by one who has a pleasant voice and can play well on an instrument, for they hear your words, but they do not perform them. 33 And when this comes to pass (behold, it will come), they shall know that a prophet has been among them."

[#ezk034%breakable]
=== Chapter 34

[.outline.text-center]
_A reproof of the shepherds, 1-6. God's judgment against them, 7-10. His providence over his flock, 11-19. The kingdom of Christ, 20-31._

1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy, and say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD to the shepherds: "Woe to the shepherds of Israel who feed themselves! Should the shepherds not feed the flocks? 3 You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, and you kill those that are fed, but you do not feed the flock. 4 The diseased you have not strengthened, neither have you healed that which was sick, neither have you bound up that which was broken, neither have you brought back that which was driven away, neither have you sought that which was lost, but with force and with cruelty you have ruled them. 5 And they were scattered, because there is no shepherd. And they became food to all the beasts of the field when they were scattered. 6 My sheep wandered through all the mountains and upon every high hill. My flock was even scattered upon all the face of the earth, and no one searched or sought for them."'"

7 Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the LORD. 8 "As I live," says the Lord GOD, "surely because my flock became a prey and my flock became food to every beast of the field, because there was no shepherd, neither did my shepherds search for my flock, but the shepherds fed themselves and did not feed my flock, 9 Therefore, O shepherds, hear the word of the LORD. 10 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I will require my flock at their hand and cause them to cease from feeding the flock. The shepherds shall not feed themselves anymore, for I will deliver my flock from their mouth so that they may not be food for them."'"

11 For thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I, even I, will both search for my sheep and seek them out. 12 As a shepherd seeks out his flock in the day that he is among his sheep that are scattered, so I will seek out my sheep and will deliver them out of all places where they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day. 13 And I will bring them out from the people and gather them from the countries, and will bring them to their own land and feed them upon the mountains of Israel by the rivers and in all the inhabited places of the country. 14 I will feed them in a good pasture, and their fold shall be upon the high mountains of Israel. There they shall lie in a good fold, and in a fat pasture they shall feed upon the mountains of Israel. 15 I will feed my flock and I will cause them to lie down," says the Lord GOD. 16 "I will seek that which was lost and bring back that which was driven away, and I will bind up that which was broken and strengthen that which was sick. But I will destroy the fat and the strong. I will feed them with judgment.

17 "And as for you, O my flock, thus says the Lord GOD: 'Behold, I judge between sheep and sheep, between the rams and the male goats. 18 Does it seem a small thing to you to have eaten up the good pasture? Must you tread down with your feet the remnant of your pastures? You have drank of the deep waters. Must you foul the remainder with your feet? 19 And as for my flock, they eat that which you have trodden with your feet, and they drink that which you have fouled with your feet.'"

20 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD to them: "Behold, I, even I, will judge between the fat sheep and between the lean sheep. 21 Because you have thrust with side and with shoulder and pushed all the diseased with your horns until you have scattered them abroad, 22 Therefore I will save my flock, and they shall no longer be a prey. And I will judge between sheep and sheep.

23 "And I will set up one shepherd over them, and he shall feed them, even my servant David. He shall feed them and be their shepherd. 24 And I, the LORD, will be their God, and my servant David a prince among them. I, the LORD, have spoken it.

25 "And I will make with them a covenant of peace and will cause the evil beasts to cease out of the land. And they shall dwell safely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods. 26 And I will make them and the places around my hill a blessing, and I will cause the shower to come down in its season. There shall be showers of blessing. 27 And the tree of the field shall yield her fruit, and the earth shall yield her increase, and they shall be safe in their land. And they shall know that I am the LORD when I have broken the bars of their yoke and delivered them out of the hand of those who subjected them to service. 28 And they shall no longer be a prey to the heathen, neither shall the beast of the land devour them, but they shall dwell safely, and no one shall make them afraid. 29 And I will raise up for them a plant of renown, and they shall no longer be consumed with hunger in the land, neither bear the shame of the heathen anymore. 30 Thus they shall know that I, the LORD their God, am with them, and that they, even the house of Israel, are my people," says the Lord GOD. 31 "And you my flock, the flock of my pasture, are men, and I am your God," says the Lord GOD.

[#ezk035%breakable]
=== Chapter 35

[.outline.text-center]
_The judgment of mount Seir for their hatred of Israel, and insulting over their distress, 1-15._

1 Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, set your face against mount Seir and prophesy against it, 3 And say to it, 'Thus says the Lord GOD:

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Behold, O mount Seir, I am against you, [.linebr]#/# +
and I will stretch out my hand against you [.linebr]#/# +
and make you most desolate.

|
|4 I will lay your cities waste, [.linebr]#/# +
and you shall be desolate. [.linebr]#/# +
And you shall know that I am the LORD.
|===

5 "Because you have had a perpetual hatred and have shed the blood of the children of Israel by the force of the sword in the time of their calamity, in the time that their iniquity had an end, 6 Therefore, as I live," says the Lord GOD, "I will prepare you for blood, and blood shall pursue you. Since you have not hated blood, even blood shall pursue you. 7 Thus I will make mount Seir most desolate and cut off from it him who passes over and him who returns. 8 And I will fill his mountains with his slain men. In your hills, in your valleys, and in all your rivers, they shall fall who are slain with the sword. 9 I will make you perpetual desolations, and your cities shall not return. And you shall know that I am the LORD.

10 "Because you have said, 'These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we will possess it,' whereas the LORD was there, 11 Therefore, as I live," says the Lord GOD, "I will even do according to your anger and according to your envy which you have used out of your hatred against them, and I will make myself known among them when I have judged you. 12 And you shall know that I am the LORD and that I have heard all your blasphemies which you have spoken against the mountains of Israel, saying, 'They are laid desolate. They are given to us to consume.' 13 Thus with your mouth you have boasted against me and have multiplied your words against me. I have heard them." 14 Thus says the Lord GOD: "When the whole earth rejoices, I will make you desolate. 15 As you rejoiced at the inheritance of the house of Israel because it was desolate, so I will do to you. You shall be desolate, O mount Seir, and all Edom, even all of it. And they shall know that I am the LORD."'"

[#ezk036%breakable]
=== Chapter 36

[.outline.text-center]
_The land of Israel is comforted, both by destruction of the heathen, who spitefully used it, 1-7, and by the blessings of God promised to it, 8-15. Israel was rejected for their sin, 16-20, and God will glorify himself in a promise of pardon, 21-24. The blessings of Christ's kingdom, 25-38._

1 "Also, son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel, and say, 'You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the LORD. 2 Thus says the Lord GOD: "Because the enemy had said against you, 'Aha, even the ancient high places are ours in possession,'"' 3 Therefore prophesy and say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Because they have made you desolate and swallowed you up on every side, so that you might be a possession to the rest of the heathen, and you are taken up in the lips of talkers and are an infamy of the people"— 4 Therefore, mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD. Thus says the Lord GOD to the mountains, to the hills, to the rivers, to the valleys, to the desolate wastes, and to the cities that are forsaken, which became a prey and derision to the remnant of the heathen who are around— 5 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "Surely in the fire of my jealousy I have spoken against the remnant of the heathen and against all Edom, who have appointed my land into their possession with the joy of all their heart, with despiteful minds, to cast it out for a prey."' 6 Prophesy therefore concerning the land of Israel, and say to the mountains, to the hills, to the rivers, and to the valleys, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I have spoken in my jealousy and in my fury, because you have borne the shame of the heathen." 7 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "I have lifted up my hand. Surely the heathen who are around you, they shall bear their shame. 8 But you, O mountains of Israel, you shall shoot forth your branches and yield your fruit to my people of Israel, for they are at hand to come. 9 For behold, I am for you and I will turn to you, and you shall be tilled and sown. 10 And I will multiply men upon you, all the house of Israel, even all of it. And the cities shall be inhabited and the wastes shall be built. 11 And I will multiply upon you man and beast, and they shall increase and bring fruit. And I will settle you after your old states and will do better to you than at your beginnings. And you shall know that I am the LORD. 12 I will even cause men to walk upon you, even my people Israel. And they shall possess you, and you shall be their inheritance. And you shall no more from now on bereave them of men."

13 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Because they say to you, 'You devour men and have bereaved your nations,' 14 Therefore you shall no longer devour men, neither bereave your nations anymore," says the Lord GOD. 15 "I will not cause men to hear in you the shame of the heathen anymore, neither shall you bear the reproach of the people anymore, neither shall you cause your nations to fall anymore," says the Lord GOD.'"

16 Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 17 "Son of man, when the house of Israel dwelt in their own land, they defiled it by their own way and by their doings. Their way was before me as the uncleanness of a woman in her impurity. 18 Therefore, I poured my fury upon them for the blood that they had shed upon the land and for their idols with which they had polluted it. 19 And I scattered them among the heathen, and they were dispersed through the countries. According to their way and according to their doings I judged them. 20 And when they entered among the heathen where they went, they profaned my holy name when they said to them, 'These are the people of the LORD and have gone forth out of his land.' 21 But I had concern for my holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the heathen where they went.

22 "Therefore, say to the house of Israel, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "I do not do this for your sakes, O house of Israel, but for my holy name's sake, which you have profaned among the heathen where you went. 23 And I will sanctify my great name, which was profaned among the heathen, which you have profaned in the midst of them. And the heathen shall know that I am the LORD," says the Lord GOD, "when I have been sanctified in you before their eyes. 24 For I will take you from among the heathen, gather you out of all countries, and bring you into your own land. 25 Then I will sprinkle clean water upon you, and you shall be clean. From all your filthiness and from all your idols, I will cleanse you. [[ezk036-026]]26 A new heart I will also give you, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. [[ezk036-027]]27 And I will put my Spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you shall keep my judgments, and do them. 28 And you shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers. And you shall be my people, and I will be your God. 29 I will also save you from all your uncleannesses. And I will call for the grain and increase it, and lay no famine upon you. 30 And I will multiply the fruit of the tree and the increase of the field, so that you shall no longer receive reproach of famine among the heathen. 31 Then you shall remember your own evil ways and your doings that were not good, and shall loathe yourselves in your own sight for your iniquities and for your abominations. 32 It is not for your sakes that I do this," says the Lord GOD. "May that be known to you. Be ashamed and confounded for your own ways, O house of Israel."

33 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "In the day that I have cleansed you from all your iniquities I will also cause you to dwell in the cities, and the wastes shall be built. 34 And the desolate land shall be tilled instead of lying desolate in the sight of all who passed by. 35 And they shall say, 'This land that was desolate has become like the garden of Eden, and the waste, desolate, and ruined cities have become fortified and are inhabited.' 36 Then the heathen who are left around you shall know that I, the LORD, build the ruined places and plant that which was desolate. I, the LORD, have spoken it, and I will do it."

37 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "I will once again be inquired of by the house of Israel and do this for them: I will increase them with men like a flock. 38 As the holy flock, as the flock of Jerusalem in her solemn feasts, so the waste cities shall be filled with flocks of men. And they shall know that I am the LORD."'"

[#ezk037%breakable]
=== Chapter 37

[.outline.text-center]
_By the resurrection of dry bones, 1-10, the dead hope of Israel is revived, 11-14. By the uniting of two sticks, 15-17, is shown the incorporation of Israel into Judah, 18-20. The promises of Christ's kingdom, 21-28._

1 The hand of the LORD was upon me, and he carried me out in the Spirit of the LORD and set me down in the midst of the valley which was full of bones. 2 And he caused me to pass by them around, and behold, there were very many in the open valley, and behold, they were very dry. 3 And he said to me, "Son of man, can these bones live?" And I answered, "O Lord GOD, you know." 4 Again he said to me, "Prophesy upon these bones, and say to them, 'O dry bones, hear the word of the LORD. 5 Thus says the Lord GOD to these bones: "Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and you shall live. 6 And I will lay sinews upon you, bring up flesh upon you, cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live. And you shall know that I am the LORD."'"

7 So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a noise, and behold a shaking, and the bones came together, bone to his bone. 8 And when I looked, behold, the sinews and the flesh came up upon them and the skin covered them above, but there was no breath in them. 9 Then he said to me, "Prophesy to the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain so that they may live."'" 10 So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived and stood up upon their feet—an exceedingly great army.

11 Then he said to me, "Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, 'Our bones are dried and our hope is lost. We are completely cut off.' 12 Therefore, prophesy and say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, O my people, I will open your graves and cause you to come out of your graves and bring you into the land of Israel. 13 And you shall know that I am the LORD when I have opened your graves, O my people, and brought you out of your graves. 14 And I will put my Spirit in you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I, the LORD, have spoken it and performed it," says the LORD.'"

15 The word of the LORD came again to me, saying, 16 "Moreover, son of man, take one stick and write upon it, 'For Judah and for the children of Israel his companions.' Then take another stick and write upon it, 'For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel his companions.' 17 And join them to one another into one stick, and they shall become one in your hand. 18 And when the children of your people speak to you, saying, 'Will you not show us what you mean by these?' 19 Say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph—which is in the hand of Ephraim—and the tribes of Israel his fellows, and I will put them with him, even with the stick of Judah. And I will make them one stick, and they shall be one in my hand."' 20 And the sticks on which you write shall be in your hand before their eyes. 21 And say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the heathen where they have gone and gather them on every side and bring them into their own land. 22 And I will make them one nation in the land upon the mountains of Israel, and one king shall be king to them all. And they shall no longer be two nations, neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms anymore at all, 23 Neither shall they defile themselves anymore with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions. But I will save them out of all their dwelling-places in which they have sinned and cleanse them. So they shall be my people, and I will be their God.

24 "And David my servant shall be king over them, and they shall all have one shepherd. They shall also walk in my judgments and observe my statutes and do them. 25 And they shall dwell in the land that I have given to Jacob my servant, in which your fathers have dwelt, and they shall dwell in it—even they, their children, and their children's children forever. And my servant David shall be their prince forever. 26 Moreover, I will make a covenant of peace with them. It shall be an everlasting covenant with them. And I will place them and multiply them and set my sanctuary in the midst of them forevermore. [[ezk037-027]]27 My tabernacle shall also be with them. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. 28 And the heathen shall know that I, the LORD, sanctify Israel when my sanctuary is in the midst of them forever."'"

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.27]*: Quoted in xref:#sco006-016[2nd Corinthians 6:16].

[#ezk038%breakable]
=== Chapter 38

[.outline.text-center]
_The army, 1-7, and malice of Gog, 8-13. God's judgment against him, 14-23._

1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 "Son of man, set your face against Gog, the land of Magog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal, and prophesy against him, 3 And say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I am against you, O Gog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal. 4 And I will turn you back and put hooks into your jaws, and I will bring you forth with all your army—horses and horsemen all clothed with all sorts of armor, even a great company with bucklers and shields, all of them handling swords; 5 Persia, Cush, and Phut with them, all of them with shield and helmet; 6 Gomer and all his bands, the house of Togarmah of the north quarters and all his bands, and many people with you.

7 "Be prepared, and prepare yourself—you and all your company who are assembled to you—and be a guard to them. 8 After many days you shall be visited. In the latter years you shall come into the land that is brought back from the sword and is gathered out of many people, against the mountains of Israel, which have always been waste. But it is brought forth out of the nations and they shall all dwell in safety. 9 You shall ascend and come like a storm. You shall be like a cloud to cover the land—you and all your bands, and many people with you."

10 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "It shall also come to pass, that at the same time things shall come into your mind, and you shall think an evil thought. 11 And you shall say, 'I will go up to the land of unwalled villages. I will go to those who are at rest, who dwell safely, all of them dwelling without walls and having neither bars nor gates'— 12 To take loot and to take plunder, to turn your hand upon the desolate places that are now inhabited and upon the people who are gathered out of the nations, which have gotten livestock and goods, who dwell in the midst of the land. 13 Sheba, Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, with all its young lions shall say to you, 'Have you come to take loot? Have you gathered your company to take plunder, to carry away silver and gold, to take away livestock and goods, to take great plunder?'"'

14 "Therefore, son of man, prophesy and say to Gog, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "In that day when my people of Israel dwell safely, shall you not know it? 15 And you shall come from your place out of the north parts—you and many people with you, all of them riding upon horses, a great company and a mighty army. 16 And you shall come against my people of Israel as a cloud to cover the land. It shall be in the latter days, and I will bring you against my land so that the heathen may know me when I have been sanctified in you, O Gog, before their eyes."

17 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Are you he of whom I have spoken in old time by my servants the prophets of Israel, who prophesied in those days many years that I would bring you against them? 18 And it shall come to pass at the same time when Gog comes against the land of Israel," says the Lord GOD, "that my fury shall come up in my face. 19 For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath I have said that surely in that day there shall be a great shaking in the land of Israel, 20 So that the fish of the sea, the birds of the heaven, the beasts of the field, all creeping animals that creep upon the earth, and all the men who are upon the face of the earth shall shake at my presence, and the mountains shall be overturned, the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground. 21 And I will call for a sword against him throughout all my mountains," says the Lord GOD. "Every man's sword shall be against his brother. 22 And I will plead against him with pestilence and with blood, and I will rain upon him, upon his bands, and upon the many people who are with him, an overflowing rain, with great hailstones, fire, and brimstone. 23 Thus I will magnify myself and sanctify myself, and I will be known in the eyes of many nations. And they shall know that I am the LORD."'"

[#ezk039%breakable]
=== Chapter 39

[.outline.text-center]
_God's judgment upon Gog, 1-7. Israel's victory, 8-10. Gog's burial in Hamon-gog, 11-16. The feast of the birds, 17-20. Israel having been plagued for their sins, 21-24, shall be gathered again with eternal favor, 25-29._

1 "Therefore, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I am against you, O Gog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal. 2 And I will turn you back, lead you on, and cause you to come from the north parts, and I will bring you upon the mountains of Israel. 3 And I will strike your bow out of your left hand and cause your arrows to fall from your right hand. 4 You shall fall upon the mountains of Israel—you and all your bands, and the people who are with you. I will give you to the ravenous birds of every sort and to the beasts of the field to be devoured. 5 You shall fall upon the open field. For I have spoken it," says the Lord GOD. 6 "And I will send a fire on Magog and among those who dwell carelessly in the coastlands. And they shall know that I am the LORD.

7 "Thus I will make my holy name known in the midst of my people Israel, and I will not let them profane my holy name anymore. And the heathen shall know that I am the LORD, the Holy One in Israel. 8 Behold, it comes, and it shall be done," says the Lord GOD. "This is the day of which I have spoken.

9 "And those who dwell in the cities of Israel shall go forth and set on fire and burn the weapons: the shields, the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, the hand-staffs, and the spears. And they shall burn them with fire for seven years 10 So that they take no wood out of the field, neither cut down any out of the forests, for they shall burn the weapons with fire. And they shall lay waste those who wasted them and rob those who robbed them," says the Lord GOD.

11 "And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will give to Gog a place of graves there in Israel: the valley of the passengers on the east of the sea. And it shall stop the noses of the passengers. And there they shall bury Gog and all his multitude. And they shall call it The Valley of Hamon-gog. 12 And for seven months the house of Israel shall be burying them so that they may cleanse the land. 13 Even all the people of the land shall bury them. And it shall be to them a renown in the day that I have been glorified," says the Lord GOD. 14 "And they shall sever out men of continual employment, passing through the land to bury with the passengers those who remain upon the face of the earth to cleanse it. After the end of seven months they shall search. 15 And as passengers pass through the land, when any sees a man's bone, then he shall set up a sign by it until the buriers have buried it in The Valley of Hamon-gog. 16 And also the name of the city shall be Hamonah. Thus they shall cleanse the land."'

17 "And, son of man, thus says the Lord GOD: 'Say to every feathered bird and to every beast of the field, "Assemble yourselves, and come. Gather yourselves on every side to my sacrifice that I sacrifice for you, even a great sacrifice upon the mountains of Israel, so that you may eat flesh and drink blood. 18 You shall eat the flesh of the mighty and drink the blood of the princes of the earth—of rams, of lambs, of goats, and of bulls, all of them fattened beasts of Bashan. 19 And you shall eat fat until you are full and drink blood until you are drunken at my sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you. 20 Thus you shall be filled at my table with horses and chariots, with mighty men, and with all men of war," says the Lord GOD.

21 "And I will set my glory among the heathen, and all the heathen shall see my judgment that I have executed and my hand that I have laid upon them. 22 Thus the house of Israel shall know that I am the LORD their God from that day forward. 23 And the heathen shall know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity. Because they trespassed against me, therefore I hid my face from them and gave them into the hand of their enemies, and they all fell by the sword. 24 According to their uncleanness and according to their transgressions I have dealt with them and hid my face from them."'"

25 Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: "Now I will bring back the captivity of Jacob and have mercy upon the whole house of Israel, and I will be jealous for my holy name. 26 And they shall bear their shame and all their trespasses by which they have trespassed against me when they dwell safely in their land and no one makes them afraid, 27 When I have brought them back from the people, gathered them out of the lands of their enemies, and am sanctified through them in the sight of many nations. 28 Then they shall know that I am the LORD their God who caused them to be led into captivity among the heathen. But I have gathered them to their own land and have left none of them there anymore. 29 I will not hide my face anymore from them, for I have poured out my Spirit upon the house of Israel," says the Lord GOD.

[#ezk040%breakable]
=== Chapter 40

[.outline.text-center]
_The time, manner, and end of the vision of the city and temple, 1-5. The description of the east gate of the outer court, 6-19; of the north gate, 20-23; of the south gate, 24-26; of the south gate of the inner court, 27-31; of the east gate, 32-34; and of the north gate, 35-38. Eight tables, 39-43. The chambers, 44-47. The porch of the house, 48, 49._

1 In the twenty-fifth year of our captivity, in the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after the city was smitten, on that same day the hand of the LORD was upon me and brought me there. 2 In the visions of God he brought me into the land of Israel and set me upon a very high mountain, by which was as the frame of a city on the south. 3 And he brought me there, and behold, there was a man whose appearance was like the appearance of brass with a line of flax in his hand and a measuring reed, and he stood in the gate. 4 And the man said to me, "Son of man, behold with your eyes and hear with your ears, and set your heart upon all that I shall show you, for you are brought here so that I might show them to you. Declare all that you see to the house of Israel."

5 And behold, there was a wall on the outside of the house around, and in the man's hand was a measuring reed of six cubits long, of which each [cubit] was a cubit and a hand-breadth. So he measured the breadth of the building, one reed, and the height, one reed. 6 Then he came to the gate which looks toward the east and ascended its stairs. And he measured the threshold of the gate, which was one reed broad, and the other threshold of the gate, which was one reed broad. 7 And every little chamber was one reed long and one reed broad. And between the little chambers were five cubits. And the threshold of the gate by the porch of the gate within was one reed. 8 He also measured the porch of the gate within, one reed. 9 Then he measured the porch of the gate, eight cubits, and its posts, two cubits, and the porch of the gate was inward. 10 And the little chambers of the gate eastward were three on this side and three on that side. The three of them were of one measure. And the posts had one measure on this side and on that side. 11 And he measured the breadth of the entry of the gate, ten cubits, and the length of the gate, thirteen cubits. 12 Also the space before the little chambers was one cubit on this side and the space was one cubit on that side. And the little chambers were six cubits on this side and six cubits on that side. 13 He then measured the gate from the roof of one little chamber to the roof of another. The breadth was twenty-five cubits, door against door. 14 He also made posts of sixty cubits, even to the post of the court around the gate. 15 And from the face of the gate of the entrance to the face of the porch of the inner gate was fifty cubits. 16 And there were narrow windows to the little chambers and to their posts within the gate around, and likewise to the arches. And windows were around inward. And upon each post were palm-trees.

17 Then he brought me into the outward court, and behold, there were chambers and a pavement made for the court around. Thirty chambers were upon the pavement. 18 And the pavement by the side of the gates over against the length of the gates was the lower pavement. 19 Then he measured the breadth from the front of the lower gate to the front of the inner court outside, one hundred cubits eastward and northward.

20 And he measured the length and the breadth of the gate of the outward court that looked toward the north. 21 And its little chambers were three on this side and three on that side. And its posts and its arches were after the measure of the first gate. Its length was fifty cubits and its breadth twenty-five cubits. 22 And their windows, their arches, and their palm-trees were after the measure of the gate that looks toward the east. And they went up to it by seven steps, and its arches were before them. 23 And there was a gate in the inner court over against the gate toward the north, just like the one toward the east. And he measured from gate to gate one hundred cubits.

24 After that he brought me toward the south, and behold a gate toward the south. And he measured its posts and its arches according to these measures. 25 And there were windows in it and in its arches around, like those windows. The length was fifty cubits and the breadth twenty-five cubits. 26 And there were seven steps to go up to it, and its arches were before them. And it had palm-trees, one on this side and another on that side, upon its posts. 27 And there was a gate in the inner court toward the south. And he measured from gate to gate toward the south one hundred cubits.

28 And he brought me to the inner court by the south gate. And he measured the south gate according to these measures, 29 And also its little chambers, its posts, and its arches according to these measures. And there were windows in it and in its arches around. It was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits broad. 30 And the arches around were twenty-five cubits long and five cubits broad. 31 And its arches were toward the outer court. And palm-trees were upon its posts. And the ascent to it had eight steps.

32 And he brought me into the inner court toward the east. And he measured the gate according to these measures, 33 And also its little chambers, its posts, and its arches according to these measures. And there were windows in it and in its arches around. It was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits broad. 34 And its arches were toward the outward court. And palm-trees were upon its posts on this side and on that side. And the ascent to it had eight steps.

35 And he brought me to the north gate and measured it according to these measures, 36 And also its little chambers, its posts, its arches, and the windows to it around. The length was fifty cubits and the breadth twenty-five cubits. 37 And its posts were toward the outer court. And palm-trees were upon its posts on this side and on that side. And the ascent to it had eight steps.

38 And the chambers and its entries were by the posts of the gates, where they washed the burnt-offering. 39 And in the porch of the gate were two tables on this side and two tables on that side, upon which to slay the burnt-offering, the sin-offering, and the trespass-offering. 40 And at the side outside, as one goes up to the entry of the north gate, were two tables, and on the other side, which was at the porch of the gate, were two tables. 41 Four tables were on this side and four tables on that side by the side of the gate—eight tables upon which they slew their sacrifices. 42 And the four tables were of hewn stone for the burnt-offering, of a cubit and a half long, a cubit and a half broad, and one cubit high, upon which they also laid the instruments with which they slew the burnt-offering and the sacrifice. 43 And within were hooks, each a hand-breadth long, fastened around. And upon the tables was the flesh of the offering.

44 And outside the inner gate were the chambers of the singers in the inner court. One was at the side of the north gate and its prospect was toward the south, the other at the side of the east gate having the prospect toward the north. 45 And he said to me, "This chamber, whose prospect is toward the south, is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the house. 46 And the chamber whose prospect is toward the north is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the altar. These are the sons of Zadok among the sons of Levi, who come near to the LORD to minister to him." 47 So he measured the court, one hundred cubits long and one hundred cubits broad, square, and also the altar that was before the house.

48 And he brought me to the porch of the house and measured each post of the porch, five cubits on this side and five cubits on that side. And the breadth of the gate was three cubits on this side and three cubits on that side. 49 The length of the porch was twenty cubits and the breadth eleven cubits. And he brought me by the steps by which they went up to it. And there were pillars by the posts, one on this side and another on that side.

[#ezk041%breakable]
=== Chapter 41

[.outline.text-center]
_The measures, parts, chambers, and ornaments of the temple, 1-26._

1 Afterward, he brought me to the temple and measured the posts, six cubits broad on one side and six cubits broad on the other side, which was the breadth of the tabernacle. 2 And the breadth of the door was ten cubits. And the sides of the door were five cubits on one side and five cubits on the other side. And he measured its length, forty cubits, and the breadth, twenty cubits. 3 Then he went inward and measured the post of the door, two cubits, and the door, six cubits, and the breadth of the door, seven cubits. 4 So he measured its length, twenty cubits, and the breadth, twenty cubits, before the temple. And he said to me, "This is the holy of holies."

5 Afterward, he measured the wall of the house, six cubits, and the breadth of every side-chamber, four cubits, around the house on every side. 6 And the side-chambers were three, one over another, and thirty in order, and there were ledges on the wall which belonged to the house for the side-chambers around, so that they might be supported, but not attached to the wall of the house. 7 And the side-chambers broadened, winding around upward, for the winding around of the house conveyed upward around the house. Therefore, the breadth of the house continued upward, and thus one ascends from the lowest chamber to the highest by the middle. 8 I also saw the height of the house around. The foundations of the side-chambers were a full reed of six great cubits. 9 The thickness of the wall, which was for the side-chamber outside, was five cubits. And that which was left was the place of the side-chambers that were inside. 10 And between the chambers was the width of twenty cubits around the house on every side. 11 And the doors of the side-chambers were toward the place that was left, one door toward the north and another door toward the south. And the breadth of the place that was left was five cubits around.

12 Now the building that was before the separate place at the end toward the west was seventy cubits broad. And the wall of the building was five cubits thick around, and its length ninety cubits.

13 So he measured the house, one hundred cubits long, and the separate place and the building with its walls, one hundred cubits long, 14 And the breadth of the face of the house and of the separate place toward the east, one hundred cubits.

15 And he measured the length of the building over against the separate place which was behind it and its galleries on one side and on the other side, one hundred cubits. The inner temple and the porches of the court, 16 The door posts and the narrow windows, and the galleries around on their three stories, over against the door, were ceiled with wood around, and from the ground up to the windows (and the windows were covered), 17 To the space above the door, even to the inner house and on the outside, and by all the wall around inside and outside, by measure. 18 And it was made with cherubim and palm-trees, so that a palm-tree was between a cherub and a cherub. And every cherub had two faces, 19 So that the face of a man was toward the palm-tree on one side and the face of a young lion toward the palm-tree on the other side. It was made through all the house around. 20 From the ground to above the door, cherubim and palm-trees were made, as well as on the wall of the temple.

21 As for the temple, the door-posts were squared. And as for the face of the sanctuary, the appearance thereof was like the appearance of the temple. 22 The altar of wood was three cubits high and its length two cubits, and its corners, its length, and its walls were of wood. And he said to me, "This is the table that is before the LORD." 23 And the temple and the sanctuary had two doors. 24 And the doors had two leaves each, two turning leaves: two leaves for one door and two leaves for the other door. 25 And there were made on them, on the doors of the temple, cherubim and palm-trees, as were made upon the walls. And there were thick planks upon the face of the porch outside. 26 And there were narrow windows and palm-trees on one side and on the other side, on the sides of the porch, the side-chambers of the house, and the thick planks.

[#ezk042%breakable]
=== Chapter 42

[.outline.text-center]
_The chambers for the priests, 1-12. The use thereof, 13, 14. The measures of the outward court, 15-20._

1 Then he brought me forth into the outer court, the way toward the north. And he brought me into the chamber that was over against the separate place and which was before the building toward the north. 2 Before the length of one hundred cubits was the north door, and the breadth was fifty cubits. 3 Over against the twenty cubits which were for the inner court and over against the pavement which was for the outer court, was gallery against gallery in three stories. 4 And before the chambers was a walk of ten cubits breadth inward, a way of one cubit, and their doors toward the north. 5 Now the upper chambers were shorter because the galleries were higher than these, than the lower, and than the middlemost of the building. 6 For they were in three stories, but did not have pillars as the pillars of the courts; therefore, the building was kept back more than the lowest and the middlemost from the ground. 7 And the wall that was outside over against the chambers, toward the outer court on the forepart of the chambers, its length was fifty cubits. 8 For the length of the chambers that were in the outer court was fifty cubits. And behold, before the temple were one hundred cubits. 9 And from under these chambers was the entry on the east side, as one goes into them from the outer court.

10 The chambers were in the thickness of the wall of the court toward the east, over against the separate place and over against the building. 11 And the way before them was like the appearance of the chambers which were toward the north, as long and as broad as the others. And all their exits were both according to their fashions and according to their doors. 12 And according to the doors of the chambers that were toward the south was a door in the head of the way, even the way directly before the wall toward the east, as one enters into them.

13 Then he said to me, "The north chambers and the south chambers which are before the separate place, they are holy chambers where the priests who approach the LORD shall eat the most holy things. There they shall lay the most holy things, the food-offering, the sin-offering, and the trespass-offering, for the place is holy. 14 When the priests enter therein, they shall not go out of the holy place into the outer court, but there they shall lay their garments in which they minister, for they are holy, and shall put on other garments, and shall approach to those things which are for the people."

15 Now when he had made an end of measuring the inner house, he brought me forth toward the gate whose prospect is toward the east and measured it all around. 16 He measured on the east side with the measuring reed five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed all around. 17 He measured on the north side five hundred reeds with the measuring reed all around. 18 He measured on the south side five hundred reeds with the measuring reed. 19 He turned around to the west side and measured five hundred reeds with the measuring reed. 20 He measured it by the four sides. It had a wall around, five hundred reeds long and five hundred broad, to make a separation between the sanctuary and the profane place.

[#ezk043%breakable]
=== Chapter 43

[.outline.text-center]
_The returning of the glory of God into the temple, 1-6. The sin of Israel hindered God's presence, 7-9. The prophet exhorts them to repentance and observation of the law of the house, 10-12. The measures, 13-17, and the ordinances of the altar, 18-27._

1 Afterward, he brought me to the gate, even the gate that looks toward the east, 2 And behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east. And his voice was like a noise of many waters. And the earth shined with his glory. 3 And it was according to the appearance of the vision which I saw, even according to the vision that I saw when I came to destroy the city. And the visions were like the vision that I saw by the Kebar River. And I fell upon my face. 4 And the glory of the LORD came into the house by the way of the gate whose prospect is toward the east. 5 So the Spirit took me up and brought me into the inner court, and behold, the glory of the LORD filled the house.

6 And I heard him speaking to me out of the house, and the man stood by me. 7 And he said to me, "Son of man, this is the place of my throne and the place of the soles of my feet where I will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel forever. And the house of Israel shall no more defile my holy name—neither they, nor their kings—by their lewd deeds, nor by the carcasses of their kings in their high places. 8 In their setting of their threshold by my thresholds, and their post by my posts, and the wall between me and them, they have even defiled my holy name by their abominations that they have committed; therefore, I have consumed them in my anger. 9 Now let them put away their lewd deeds and the carcasses of their kings far from me, and I will dwell in the midst of them forever.

10 "Son of man, show the house to the house of Israel so that they may be ashamed of their iniquities. And let them measure the pattern. 11 And if they are ashamed of all that they have done, show them the form of the house, its fashion, its exits, its entrances, all its forms, all its ordinances, all its forms, and all its laws, and write it in their sight so that they may keep its whole form and all its ordinances and do them. 12 This is the law of the house. Upon the top of the mountain, its whole limit around shall be most holy. Behold, this is the law of the house.

13 "And these are the measures of the altar after the cubits (the cubit is a cubit and a hand-breadth): The bottom shall be a cubit, and the breadth a cubit, and its border by its edge around shall be a span. And this shall be the higher place of the altar. 14 And from the bottom upon the ground even to the lower ledge shall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit, and from the lower ledge even to the upper ledge shall be four cubits, and the breadth one cubit. 15 Thus the altar shall be four cubits. And from the altar and upward shall be four horns. 16 And the altar shall be twelve cubits long, twelve broad, square in its four sides. 17 And the ledge shall be fourteen cubits long and fourteen broad in its four sides, the border around it shall be half a cubit, and its bottom shall be a cubit all around. And its stairs shall look toward the east."

18 And he said to me, "Son of man, thus says the Lord GOD: 'These are the ordinances of the altar in the day when they make it, to offer burnt-offerings upon it and to sprinkle blood upon it. 19 And you shall give to the priests the Levites who are of the offspring of Zadok, who approach to me to minister to me,' says the Lord GOD, 'a young bull for a sin-offering. 20 And you shall take some of his blood and put it on its four horns, on the four corners of the ledge, and upon the border around. Thus you shall cleanse and purge it. 21 You shall also take the bull of the sin-offering, and he shall burn it in the appointed place of the house outside the sanctuary.

22 'And on the second day you shall offer a male goat without blemish for a sin-offering. And they shall cleanse the altar, as they cleansed it with the bull. 23 When you have made an end of cleansing it, you shall offer a young bull without blemish and a ram out of the flock without blemish. 24 And you shall offer them before the LORD, and the priests shall cast salt upon them, and they shall offer them for a burnt-offering to the LORD. 25 Seven days you shall prepare every day a goat for a sin-offering. They shall also prepare a young bull and a ram out of the flock without blemish. 26 Seven days they shall purge the altar and purify it. Thus they shall consecrate themselves. 27 And when these days have expired, it shall be, that upon the eighth day, and so forward, the priests shall make your burnt-offerings and your peace-offerings upon the altar. Then I will accept you,' says the Lord GOD."

[#ezk044%breakable]
=== Chapter 44

[.outline.text-center]
_The east gate assigned only to the prince, 1-3. The priests reproved for polluting the sanctuary, 4-8. Idolaters incapable of the priest's office, 9-14. The sons of Zadok are accepted thereto, 15, 16. Ordinances for the priests, 17-31._

1 Then he brought me back by the way of the gate of the outward sanctuary which looks toward the east, and it was shut. 2 Then the LORD said to me, "This gate shall be shut, it shall not be opened, and no man shall enter in by it. Because the LORD, the God of Israel, has entered in by it, therefore it shall be shut. 3 It is for the prince. The prince, he shall sit in it to eat bread before the LORD. He shall enter by the way of the porch of that gate and shall go out by the way of the same."

4 Then he brought me by the way of the north gate before the house. And I looked, and behold, the glory of the LORD filled the house of the LORD, and I fell upon my face. 5 And the LORD said to me, "Son of man, mark well and behold with your eyes and hear with your ears all that I say to you concerning all the ordinances of the house of the LORD and all its laws, and mark well the entrance of the house with every going forth of the sanctuary. 6 And you shall say to the rebellious, even to the house of Israel, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "O house of Israel, let it suffice you of all your abominations, 7 In that you have brought into my sanctuary strangers, uncircumcised in heart, and uncircumcised in flesh to be in my sanctuary to pollute it, even my house, when you offer my bread, the fat and the blood, and they have broken my covenant because of all your abominations. 8 And you have not kept the charge of my holy things, but you have set keepers of my charge in my sanctuary for yourselves."

9 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "No stranger uncircumcised in heart or uncircumcised in flesh shall enter into my sanctuary, not even a stranger who is among the children of Israel. 10 And the Levites who have gone away far from me when Israel went astray, and who went astray from me after their idols, they shall even bear their iniquity. 11 Yet they shall be ministers in my sanctuary, having charge at the gates of the house and ministering to the house. They shall slay the burnt-offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they shall stand before them to minister to them. 12 Because they ministered to them before their idols and caused the house of Israel to fall into iniquity, therefore I have lifted up my hand against them," says the Lord GOD, "and they shall bear their iniquity. 13 And they shall not come near to me to do the office of a priest to me, nor to come near to any of my holy things in the holy of holies, but they shall bear their shame and their abominations which they have committed. 14 But I will make them keepers of the charge of the house for all its service and for all that shall be done therein.

15 "But the priests, the Levites, the sons of Zadok, who kept the charge of my sanctuary when the children of Israel went astray from me, they shall come near to me to minister to me, and they shall stand before me to offer to me the fat and the blood," says the Lord GOD. 16 "They shall enter into my sanctuary and they shall come near to my table to minister to me, and they shall keep my charge. 17 And it shall come to pass when they enter in at the gates of the inner court, that they shall be clothed with linen garments. No wool shall come upon them while they minister in the gates of the inner court and within. 18 They shall have linen caps upon their heads and linen breeches upon their loins. They shall not gird themselves with anything that causes sweat. 19 And when they go forth into the outer court, even into the outer court to the people, they shall take off their garments in which they ministered, lay them in the holy chambers, and put on other garments so that they do not sanctify the people with their garments. 20 They shall not shave their heads nor allow their locks to grow long. They shall only poll their heads. 21 No priest shall drink wine when they enter into the inner court. 22 They shall not take for their wives a widow nor her who is put away, but they shall take virgins of the offspring of the house of Israel or a widow who had a priest before. 23 And they shall teach my people the difference between the holy and profane, and cause them to discern between the unclean and the clean. 24 And in controversy they shall stand in judgment and judge it according to my judgments. And they shall keep my laws and my statutes in all my assemblies and hallow my sabbaths. 25 And they shall not come near to a dead person to defile themselves. But for father, for mother, for son, for daughter, for brother, or for sister who has had no husband, they may defile themselves. 26 And after he is cleansed, they shall number for him seven days. 27 And on the day that he goes into the sanctuary to the inner court to minister in the sanctuary, he shall offer his sin-offering," says the Lord GOD.

28 "And it shall be to them for an inheritance. I am their inheritance. And you shall give them no possession in Israel. I am their possession. 29 They shall eat the food-offering, the sin-offering, and the trespass-offering. Every dedicated thing in Israel shall be theirs. 30 And the first of all the first-fruits of all things and every oblation of all, of every sort of your oblations, shall be the priest's. You shall also give to the priest the first of your dough so that he may cause the blessing to rest in your house. 31 The priests shall not eat anything that is dead of itself or torn, whether bird or beast."'"

[#ezk045%breakable]
=== Chapter 45

[.outline.text-center]
_The portion of land for the sanctuary, 1-5; for the city, 6; and for the prince, 7, 8. Ordinances for the prince, 9-25._

1 "'"Moreover, when you divide by lot the land for inheritance, you shall offer an oblation to the LORD, a holy portion of the land. The length shall be the length of twenty-five thousand reeds and the breadth shall be ten thousand. This shall be holy in all its borders on every side. 2 Of this there shall be for the sanctuary five hundred in length, with five hundred in breadth, square around, and fifty cubits around for its suburbs. 3 And of this measure you shall measure the length of twenty-five thousand and the breadth of ten thousand. And in it shall be the sanctuary and the holy of holies. 4 The holy portion of the land shall be for the priests the ministers of the sanctuary, who shall come near to minister to the LORD. And it shall be a place for their houses and a holy place for the sanctuary. 5 And the twenty-five thousand of length and the ten thousand of breadth shall be for the Levites, the ministers of the house, as a possession for themselves for twenty chambers.

6 "And you shall appoint the possession of the city five thousand broad and twenty-five thousand long, over against the oblation of the holy portion. It shall be for the whole house of Israel.

7 "And a portion shall be for the prince on one side and on the other side of the oblation of the holy portion, and of the possession of the city, before the oblation of the holy portion and before the possession of the city, from the west side westward and from the east side eastward. And the length shall be over against one of the portions, from the west border to the east border. 8 In the land it shall be to him for a possession in Israel. And my princes shall no longer oppress my people. And the rest of the land they shall give to the house of Israel according to their tribes."

9 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "Let it suffice you, O princes of Israel. Remove violence and plunder, and execute judgment and justice. Take away your exactions from my people," says the Lord GOD.

10 "You shall have just balances, a just ephah and a just bath. 11 The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, so that the bath may contain the tenth part of a homer and the ephah the tenth part of a homer. Its measure shall be after the homer. 12 And the shekel shall be twenty gerahs. Twenty shekels, twenty-five shekels, fifteen shekels, shall be your maneh.

13 "This is the oblation that you shall offer: the sixth part of an ephah of a homer of wheat, and you shall give the sixth part of an ephah of a homer of barley; 14 Concerning the ordinance of oil, the bath of oil, you shall offer the tenth part of a bath out of the cor, which is a homer of ten baths (for ten baths are a homer); 15 And one lamb out of the flock, out of two hundred, out of the fat pastures of Israel, for a food-offering, for a burnt-offering, and for peace-offerings, to make reconciliation for them," says the Lord GOD. 16 "All the people of the land shall give this oblation for the prince in Israel. 17 And it shall be the prince's part to give burnt-offerings, food-offerings, and drink-offerings in the feasts, in the new moons, and in the sabbaths, in all solemnities of the house of Israel. He shall prepare the sin-offering, the food-offering, the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings to make reconciliation for the house of Israel."

18 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "In the first month, on the first day of the month, you shall take a young bull without blemish and cleanse the sanctuary. 19 And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin-offering and put it upon the posts of the house, upon the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and upon the posts of the gate of the inner court. 20 And thus you shall do the seventh day of the month for everyone who errs and for him who is simple. Thus you shall reconcile the house.

21 "In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you shall have the passover, a feast of seven days. Unleavened bread shall be eaten. 22 And upon that day the prince shall prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bull for a sin-offering. 23 And on the seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burnt-offering to the LORD, seven bulls and seven rams without blemish daily the seven days and a kid of the goats daily for a sin-offering. 24 And he shall prepare a food-offering of an ephah for a bull, an ephah for a ram, and a hin of oil for an ephah. 25 In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month, he shall do the same in the feast of the seven days, according to the sin-offering, according to the burnt-offering, according to the food-offering, and according to the oil."'"

[#ezk046%breakable]
=== Chapter 46

[.outline.text-center]
_Ordinance for the prince in his worship, 1-8; and for the people, 9-15. An order for the prince's inheritance, 16-18. The courts for boiling and baking, 19-24._

1 "'Thus says the Lord GOD: "The gate of the inner court that looks toward the east shall be shut on the six working days, but on the sabbath it shall be opened, and on the day of the new moon it shall be opened. 2 And the prince shall enter by the way of the porch of that gate outside and shall stand by the post of the gate. And the priest shall prepare his burnt-offering and his peace-offerings, and he shall worship at the threshold of the gate. Then he shall go forth, but the gate shall not be shut until the evening. 3 Likewise, the people of the land shall worship at the door of this gate before the LORD on the sabbaths and on the new moons. 4 And the burnt-offering that the prince shall offer to the LORD on the sabbath day shall be six lambs without blemish and a ram without blemish. 5 And the food-offering shall be an ephah for a ram, and the food-offering for the lambs as he shall be able to give, and a hin of oil to an ephah. 6 And on the day of the new moon it shall be a young bull without blemish, six lambs, and a ram. They shall be without blemish. 7 And he shall prepare a food-offering, an ephah for a bull and an ephah for a ram, and for the lambs according as his hand shall be able, along with a hin of oil to an ephah. 8 And when the prince enters, he shall go in by the way of the porch of that gate and he shall go forth by the way of it. 9 But when the people of the land come before the LORD in the solemn feasts, he who enters in by the way of the north gate to worship shall go out by the way of the south gate, and he who enters by the way of the south gate shall go forth by the way of the north gate. He shall not return by the way of the gate by which he came in, but shall go forth over against it. 10 And the prince in the midst of them, when they go in, he shall go in, and when they go forth, he shall go forth.

11 "And in the feasts and in the solemnities the food-offering shall be an ephah to a bull and an ephah to a ram, and to the lambs as he is able to give, along with a hin of oil to an ephah. 12 Now when the prince prepares a voluntary burnt-offering or peace-offerings voluntarily to the LORD, the gate that looks toward the east shall be opened for him, and he shall prepare his burnt-offering and his peace-offerings, as he did on the sabbath-day. Then he shall go forth, and the gate shall be shut after his going forth.

13 "You shall daily prepare a burnt-offering to the LORD of a lamb of the first year without blemish. You shall prepare it every morning. 14 And you shall prepare a food-offering for it every morning, the sixth part of an ephah and the third part of a hin of oil to temper with the fine flour, a food-offering continually by a perpetual ordinance to the LORD. 15 Thus they shall prepare the lamb, the food-offering, and the oil every morning for a continual burnt-offering."

16 'Thus says the Lord GOD: "If the prince gives a gift to any of his sons, its inheritance shall be to his sons. It shall be their possession by inheritance. 17 But if he gives a gift of his inheritance to one of his servants, then it shall be his to the year of liberty. Afterward, it shall return to the prince. But his inheritance shall be to his sons for them. 18 Moreover, the prince shall not take from the people's inheritance by oppression to thrust them out of their possession, but he shall give his sons' inheritance out of his own possession so that my people are not scattered each from his possession."'"

19 Afterward, he brought me through the entry, which was at the side of the gate, into the holy chambers of the priests, which looked toward the north, and behold, there was a place on the two sides westward. 20 Then he said to me, "This is the place where the priests shall boil the trespass-offering and the sin-offering, where they shall bake the food-offering, so that they may not bring them out into the outer court to sanctify the people."

21 Then he brought me forth into the outer court and caused me to pass by the four corners of the court, and behold, in every corner of the court there was a court. 22 In the four corners of the court there were enclosed courts, each forty cubits long and thirty broad. These four corners were of one measure. 23 And there was a wall around in them, around the four of them, and it was made with boiling places under the rows around. 24 Then he said to me, "These are the places of those who boil, where the ministers of the house shall boil the sacrifice of the people."

[#ezk047%breakable]
=== Chapter 47

[.outline.text-center]
_The vision of the holy waters, 1-5. The virtue of them, 6-12. The borders of the land, 13-21. The division of it by lot, 22, 23._

1 Afterward, he brought me back to the door of the house, and behold, waters issued out from under the threshold of the house eastward, for the front of the house stood toward the east, and the waters came down from under the right side of the house, at the south side of the altar. 2 Then he brought me out of the way of the gate northward and led me around by the way outside to the outer gate that looks eastward, and behold, waters ran out on the right side.

3 And when the man who had the line in his hand went forth eastward, he measured one thousand cubits and brought me through the waters. The waters were to the ankles. 4 Again he measured one thousand and brought me through the waters. The waters were to the knees. Again he measured one thousand and brought me through. The waters were to the loins. 5 Afterward, he measured one thousand and it was a river that I could not pass over, for the waters had risen, waters to swim in, a river that could not be passed over. 6 And he said to me, "Son of man, have you seen this?" Then he brought me and caused me to return to the bank of the river. 7 Now when I had returned, behold, at the bank of the river were very many trees on one side and on the other. 8 Then he said to me, "These waters issue out toward the east country, go down into the desert, and go into the sea. When [the waters] are brought forth into the sea, the waters become fresh. 9 And it shall come to pass, that wherever the rivers come, every living creature that swarms shall live. And there shall be a very great multitude of fish, because these waters shall come there, for they shall be healed, and everything shall live where the river comes. 10 And it shall come to pass, that the fishermen shall stand upon it from En-gedi even to En-eglaim. They shall be a place to spread forth nets. Their fish shall be according to their kinds, as the fish of the Great Sea, very numerous. 11 But its miry places and its marshes shall not be healed. They shall be given to salt. 12 And by the river upon its bank, on this side and on that side, all trees for food shall grow, whose leaf shall not fade, neither shall their fruit be consumed. They shall bring forth new fruit according to their months, because their waters issued out of the sanctuary. And their fruit shall be for food and their leaf for medicine."

13 Thus says the Lord GOD: "This shall be the border by which you shall inherit the land according to the twelve tribes of Israel. Joseph shall have two portions. 14 And you shall inherit it, one as well as another, for I lifted up my hand to give it to your fathers. And this land shall fall to you for inheritance.

15 "And this shall be the border of the land toward the north side: from the Great Sea, the way of Hethlon, as men go to Zedad; 16 Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is between the border of Damascus and the border of Hamath; Hazar-hatticon, which is by the border of Hauran. 17 And the border from the sea shall be Hazar-enan, the border of Damascus, and on the north northward is the border of Hamath. And this is the north side.

18 "And the east side you shall measure from Hauran, from Damascus, from Gilead, and from the land of Israel by the Jordan, from the border to the east sea. And this is the east side.

19 "And the south side southward shall run from Tamar even to the waters of strife in Kadesh, the river to the Great Sea. And this is the south side southward.

20 "The west side shall also be the Great Sea from the border until one comes over against Hamath. This is the west side.

21 "Thus you shall divide this land to yourselves according to the tribes of Israel. 22 And it shall come to pass, that you shall divide it by lot for an inheritance to yourselves and to the strangers who sojourn among you who shall beget children among you. And they shall be to you as natives in the country among the children of Israel. They shall have inheritance with you among the tribes of Israel. 23 And it shall come to pass, that in what tribe the stranger sojourns, there you shall give him his inheritance," says the Lord GOD.

[#ezk048%breakable]
=== Chapter 48

[.outline.text-center]
_The portions of the twelve tribes, 1-7, 23-29; of the sanctuary, 8-14; of the city and suburbs, 15-20; and of the prince, 21, 22. The dimensions and gates of the city, 30-35._

1 "Now these are the names of the tribes. From the north end to the border of the way of Hethlon as one goes to Hamath, as far as Hazar-enan on the border of Damascus northward to the limit of Hamath, for these are his sides east and west, a portion for Dan. 2 And by the border of Dan, from the east side to the west side, a portion for Asher. 3 And by the border of Asher, from the east side even to the west side, a portion for Naphtali. 4 And by the border of Naphtali, from the east side to the west side, a portion for Manasseh. 5 And by the border of Manasseh, from the east side to the west side, a portion for Ephraim. 6 And by the border of Ephraim, from the east side even to the west side, a portion for Reuben. 7 And by the border of Reuben, from the east side to the west side, a portion for Judah.

8 "And by the border of Judah, from the east side to the west side, shall be the offering which you shall offer of twenty-five thousand reeds in breadth and in length as one of the other parts, from the east side to the west side. And the sanctuary shall be in the midst of it. 9 The oblation that you shall offer to the LORD shall be of twenty-five thousand in length and of ten thousand in breadth.

10 "And for them, even for the priests, shall be this holy oblation: toward the north twenty-five thousand in length, toward the west ten thousand in breadth, toward the east ten thousand in breadth, and toward the south twenty-five thousand in length. And the sanctuary of the LORD shall be in the midst of it. 11 It shall be for the priests who are sanctified of the sons of Zadok who have kept my charge, who did not go astray when the children of Israel went astray, as the Levites went astray. 12 And this oblation of the land that is offered shall be to them a thing most holy, by the border of the Levites. 13 And over against the border of the priests, the Levites shall have twenty-five thousand in length and ten thousand in breadth. All the length shall be twenty-five thousand and the breadth ten thousand. 14 And they shall not sell or exchange any of it, nor alienate the first-fruits of the land, for it is holy to the LORD.

15 "And the five thousand that is left in the breadth over against the twenty-five thousand shall be a profane place for the city, for dwelling and for suburbs, and the city shall be in the midst of it. 16 And these shall be its measures: the north side four thousand and five hundred, the south side four thousand and five hundred, on the east side four thousand and five hundred, and the west side four thousand and five hundred. 17 And the suburbs of the city shall be toward the north two hundred and fifty, toward the south two hundred and fifty, toward the east two hundred and fifty, and toward the west two hundred and fifty. 18 And the remainder in length over against the oblation of the holy portion shall be ten thousand eastward and ten thousand westward. And it shall be over against the oblation of the holy portion, and its increase shall be for food to those who serve the city. 19 And those who serve the city shall serve it out of all the tribes of Israel. 20 All the oblation shall be twenty-five thousand by twenty-five thousand. You shall offer the holy oblation along with the possession of the city as a square.

21 "And the remainder on one side and on the other of the holy oblation and of the possession of the city shall be for the prince. Over against the twenty-five thousand of the oblation toward the east border and westward over against the twenty-five thousand toward the west border, over against the portions, shall be for the prince. And it shall be the holy oblation, and the sanctuary of the house shall be in the midst of it. 22 Moreover, from the possession of the Levites and from the possession of the city, being in the midst of that which is the prince's, between the border of Judah and the border of Benjamin, shall be for the prince.

23 "As for the rest of the tribes, from the east side to the west side, Benjamin shall have a portion. 24 And by the border of Benjamin, from the east side to the west side, Simeon shall have a portion. 25 And by the border of Simeon, from the east side to the west side, Issachar a portion. 26 And by the border of Issachar, from the east side to the west side, Zebulun a portion. 27 And by the border of Zebulun, from the east side to the west side, Gad a portion. 28 And by the border of Gad, at the south side southward, the border shall be even from Tamar to the waters of strife in Kadesh and to the river toward the Great Sea. 29 This is the land which you shall divide by lot to the tribes of Israel for inheritance, and these are their portions," says the Lord GOD.

30 "And these are the exits of the city on the north side, four thousand and five hundred measures. 31 And the gates of the city shall be named after the tribes of Israel. The three gates northward: the gate of Reuben, one; the gate of Judah, one; the gate of Levi, one. 32 And on the east side four thousand and five hundred, with three gates: the gate of Joseph, one; the gate of Benjamin, one; the gate of Dan, one. 33 And on the south side four thousand and five hundred measures, and three gates: the gate of Simeon, one; the gate of Issachar, one; the gate of Zebulun, one. 34 And on the west side four thousand and five hundred, with their three gates: the gate of Gad, one; the gate of Asher, one; the gate of Naphtali, one. 35 The circuit was eighteen thousand measures. And the name of the city from that day shall be, 'The LORD is There.'"

[.text-center]
_[Tanach reading: go to xref:#hosea[Hosea]]_
