////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#ezra]
== The Story of Ezra

*Ezra | Ἔσδρας | עזרא א*

[#ezr001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_The proclamation of Cyrus for the building of the temple, 1-4. The people provide for their return, 5, 6. Cyrus restores the vessels of the temple to Sheshbazzar, 7-11._

1 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, so that the word of the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the LORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and put it also in writing, saying,

2 "Thus says Cyrus king of Persia: 'The LORD God of heaven has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. 3 Who is there among you of all his people? May his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and build the house of the LORD God of Israel (he is the God), who is in Jerusalem. 4 And whoever remains in any place where he sojourns, let the men of his place help him with silver, with gold, with goods, and with beasts, besides the voluntary-offering for the house of God that is in Jerusalem.'"

5 Then arose the chief of the fathers of Judah and Benjamin, the priests, and the Levites, with all whose spirit God had raised, to go up to build the house of the LORD which is in Jerusalem. 6 And all those who were around them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, with beasts, and with precious things, besides all that was willingly offered. 7 Also Cyrus the king brought forth the vessels of the house of the LORD, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought from Jerusalem, and had put them in the house of his gods. 8 And Cyrus king of Persia brought them forth by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and he numbered them to Sheshbazzar, the prince of Judah. 9 And this is the number of them: thirty chargers of gold, one thousand chargers of silver, twenty-nine knives, 10 Thirty basins of gold, four hundred and ten silver basins of a second sort, and one thousand other vessels. 11 All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four hundred. All these Sheshbazzar brought with those of the captivity who were brought from Babylon to Jerusalem.

[#ezr002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_The number who return of the people, 1-35; of the priests, 36-39; of the Levites, 40-42; of the Nethinims, 43-54; of Solomon's servants, 55-60; of the priests who could not show their pedigree, 61-63. The whole number of them, with their substance, 64-67. Their oblations, 68-70._

1 Now these are the children of the province who went up from the captivity, of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away to Babylon, and came back to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his city, 2 Who came with Zerubbabel: Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mizpar, Bigvai, Rehum, and Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel: 3 The children of Parosh, two thousand one hundred and seventy-two; 4 The children of Shephatiah, three hundred and seventy-two; 5 The children of Arah, seven hundred and seventy-five; 6 The children of Pahath-moab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve; 7 The children of Elam, one thousand two hundred and fifty-four; 8 The children of Zattu, nine hundred and forty-five; 9 The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty; 10 The children of Bani, six hundred and forty-two; 11 The children of Bebai, six hundred and twenty-three; 12 The children of Azgad, one thousand two hundred and twenty-two; 13 The children of Adonikam, six hundred and sixty-six; 14 The children of Bigvai, two thousand and fifty-six; 15 The children of Adin, four hundred and fifty-four; 16 The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety-eight; 17 The children of Bezai, three hundred and twenty-three; 18 The children of Jorah, one hundred and twelve; 19 The children of Hashum, two hundred and twenty-three; 20 The children of Gibbar, ninety-five; 21 The children of Beth-lehem, one hundred and twenty-three; 22 The men of Netophah, fifty-six; 23 The men of Anathoth, one hundred and twenty-eight; 24 The children of Azmaveth, forty-two; 25 The children of Kirjath-arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty-three; 26 The children of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred and twenty-one; 27 The men of Michmas, one hundred and twenty-two; 28 The men of Beth-el and Ai, two hundred and twenty-three; 29 The children of Nebo, fifty-two; 30 The children of Magbish, one hundred and fifty-six; 31 The children of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred and fifty-four; 32 The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty; 33 The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred and twenty-five; 34 The children of Jericho, three hundred and forty-five; 35 The children of Senaah, three thousand six hundred and thirty.

36 The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred and seventy-three; 37 The children of Immer, one thousand and fifty-two; 38 The children of Pashur, one thousand two hundred and forty-seven; 39 The children of Harim, one thousand and seventeen.

40 The Levites: the children of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the children of Hodaviah, seventy-four. 41 The singers: the children of Asaph, one hundred and twenty-eight. 42 The children of the gatekeepers: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, and the children of Shobai, in all one hundred and thirty-nine.

43 The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth, 44 The children of Keros, the children of Siaha, the children of Padon, 45 The children of Lebanah, the children of Hagabah, the children of Akkub, 46 The children of Hagab, the children of Shalmai, the children of Hanan, 47 The children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, the children of Reaiah, 48 The children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, the children of Gazzam, 49 The children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, the children of Besai, 50 The children of Asnah, the children of Mehunim, the children of Nephusim, 51 The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, 52 The children of Bazluth, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha, 53 The children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Thamah, 54 The children of Neziah, and the children of Hatipha.

55 The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Peruda, 56 The children of Jaalah, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel, 57 The children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth of Zebaim, and the children of Ami.

58 All the Nethinims and the children of Solomon's servants were three hundred and ninety-two.

59 And these were those who went up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsa, Cherub, Addan, and Immer, but they could not prove their fathers' houses or their genealogy, whether they were of Israel: 60 The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, and the children of Nekoda, six hundred and fifty-two.

61 And of the children of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz, and the children of Barzillai, who took a wife from the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite and was called after their name. 62 These sought their register among those who were reckoned by genealogy, but they were not found. Therefore, they were deemed polluted and taken from the priesthood. 63 And the Tirshatha said to them that they should not eat the most holy things until there stood up a priest with Urim and with Thummim.

64 The whole congregation together was forty-two thousand three hundred and sixty, 65 Besides their men-servants and their women-servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred and thirty-seven, and there were among them two hundred singing-men and singing-women. 66 Their horses were seven hundred and thirty-six; their mules, two hundred and forty-five; 67 Their camels, four hundred and thirty-five; their donkeys, six thousand seven hundred and twenty.

68 And some of the chief of the fathers, when they came to the house of the LORD which is at Jerusalem, offered freely for the house of God to set it up in its place. 69 They gave according to their ability to the treasury for the work sixty-one thousand drams of gold, five thousand minas of silver, and one hundred priests' garments.

70 Thus the priests, the Levites, some of the people, the singers, the gatekeepers, and the Nethinims dwelt in their cities, and all Israel in their cities.

[#ezr003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_The altar is set up, 1-3. Offerings renewed, 4-6. Workmen employed in preparing materials, 7. The foundations of the temple are laid in great joy and mourning, 8-13._

1 And when the seventh month had come and the children of Israel were in the cities, the people assembled themselves as one man at Jerusalem. 2 Then Jeshua the son of Jozadak stood up, with his brothers the priests, Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and his brothers, and built the altar of the God of Israel to offer burnt-offerings on it as it is written in the law of Moses the man of God. 3 And they set the altar upon its bases, for fear was upon them because of the people of those countries, and they offered burnt-offerings on it to the LORD, even burnt-offerings morning and evening. 4 They also kept the feast of tabernacles, as it is written, and offered the daily burnt-offerings by number, according to the custom, as the duty of every day required, 5 And afterward, the continual burnt-offering, the offerings of the new moons and of all the set feasts of the LORD that were consecrated, and those of everyone who willingly offered a voluntary-offering to the LORD. 6 From the first day of the seventh month they began to offer burnt-offerings to the LORD. But the foundation of the temple of the LORD was not yet laid. 7 They gave money also to the masons and to the carpenters, and provisions, drink, and oil to those of Zidon and to those of Tyre, to bring cedar trees from Lebanon to the sea of Joppa, according to the grant that they had from Cyrus king of Persia.

8 Now in the second year of their coming to the house of God at Jerusalem, in the second month, Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, Jeshua the son of Jozadak, the remnant of their brothers the priests and the Levites, and all those who had come out of the captivity to Jerusalem, began the work and appointed the Levites, from twenty years old and upward, to set forward the work of the house of the LORD. 9 Then Jeshua with his sons and his brothers, Kadmiel and his sons, the sons of Judah, and the sons of Henadad with their sons and their brothers—the Levites—stood together to set forward the workmen in the house of God.

10 And when the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the LORD, they set the priests in their apparel with trumpets and the Levites the sons of Asaph with cymbals to praise the LORD, after the ordinance of David king of Israel. 11 And they sang together by course in praising and giving thanks to the LORD, because he is good, for his mercy endures forever toward Israel. And all the people shouted with a great shout when they praised the LORD, because the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid. 12 But many of the priests and Levites and chief of the fathers, old men who had seen the first house, wept with a loud voice when the foundation of this house was laid before their eyes, and many shouted aloud for joy. 13 The people could not discern the noise of the shout of the joy from the noise of the weeping of the people, for the people shouted with a loud shout and the noise was heard afar off.

[#ezr004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_The adversaries, being not accepted in the building of the temple with the Jews, endeavor to hinder it, 1-6. Their letter to Artaxerxes, 7-16. The answer and decree from Artaxerxes, 17-22. The building is hindered, 23, 24._

1 Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the children of the captivity were building the temple to the LORD God of Israel, 2 They came to Zerubbabel and to the chief of the fathers, and said to them, "Let us build with you, for we seek your God, as you do, and we have sacrificed to him since the days of Esar-haddon king of Assur, who brought us up here." 3 But Zerubbabel, Jeshua, and the rest of the chief of the fathers of Israel, said to them, "You have nothing to do with us to build a house to our God. But we ourselves together will build to the LORD God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Persia has commanded us."

4 Then the people of the land weakened the hands of the people of Judah and troubled them in building. 5 And they hired counselors against them to frustrate their purpose all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even until the reign of Darius king of Persia.

6 And in the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign, they wrote to him an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem.

7 And in the days of Artaxerxes, Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and the rest of their companions wrote to Artaxerxes king of Persia, and the writing of the letter was written in the Syrian language and interpreted in the Syrian language.

8 Rehum the chancellor and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king in this sort. 9 Then wrote Rehum the chancellor, Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their companions, the Dianites, the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Susanchites, the Dehavites, and the Elamites, 10 And the rest of the nations whom the great and noble Asnapper brought over and set in the cities of Samaria, and the rest who are on this side of the river, and at such a time. 11 This is the copy of the letter that they sent to him, even to Artaxerxes the king: "Your servants the men on this side of the river, and at such a time. 12 May it be known to the king, that the Jews who came from you to us have come to Jerusalem and they are building the rebellious and noxious city. They have set up its walls and joined the foundations. 13 May it now be known to the king, that if this city is built and the walls set up again, they will not pay toll, tribute, and custom, and thus you will damage the revenue of the kings. 14 Now because we eat the salt of the palace, and it was not proper for us to see the king's dishonor, therefore we have sent and informed the king, 15 So that search may be made in the book of the records of your fathers. Thus you will find in the book of the records and know that this city is a rebellious city and hurtful to kings and provinces, and that they have moved sedition within the same of old time, for which cause this city was destroyed. 16 We make known to the king that if this city is built again and its walls set up, by this means you will have no portion on this side of the river."

17 Then the king sent an answer to Rehum the chancellor, to Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their companions who dwell in Samaria, and to the rest beyond the river: "Peace, and at such a time. 18 The letter which you sent to us has been plainly read before me. 19 And I commanded, and search has been made, and it is found that this city of old time has made insurrection against kings, and that rebellion and sedition have been made in it. 20 There have also been mighty kings over Jerusalem, who have ruled over all countries beyond the river, and toll, tribute, and custom was paid to them. 21 Now give commandment to cause these men to cease, and that this city not be built until another commandment is given from me. 22 Take heed now that you do not fail to do this. Why should damage grow to the hurt of the kings?"

23 Now when the copy of king Artaxerxes' letter was read before Rehum, Shimshai the scribe, and their companions, they went up in haste to Jerusalem to the Jews and made them to cease by force and power.

24 Then the work of the house of God which is at Jerusalem ceased. Thus it ceased until the second year of the reign of Darius king of Persia.

[#ezr005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_Zerubbabel and Jeshua, incited by Haggai and Zechariah, set forward the building of the temple, 1, 2. Tatnai and Shethar-boznai are not able to hinder the Jews, 3-5. Their letter to Darius against the Jews, 6-17._

1 Then the prophets, Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel, even to them. 2 Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua the son of Jozadak rose up and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem. And with them were the prophets of God helping them.

3 At the same time Tatnai, governor on this side of the river, Shethar-boznai, and their companions, came to them and said this to them: "Who has commanded you to build this house and to finish this wall?" 4 Then we told them, after this manner, what were the names of the men who were making this building. 5 But the eye of their God was upon the elders of the Jews, and they could not cause them to cease until the matter came to Darius. And then they returned answer by letter concerning this matter.

6 This is the copy of the letter that Tatnai, governor on this side of the river, Shethar-boznai, and his companions the Apharsachites, who were on this side of the river, sent to Darius the king. 7 They sent a letter to him, in which was written as follows: "To Darius the king: All peace. 8 May it be known to the king, that we went into the province of Judea to the house of the great God, which is being built with great stones and timber is laid in the walls. And this work proceeds rapidly and prospers in their hands. 9 Then we asked those elders, and said this to them: 'Who commanded you to build this house and to erect these walls?' 10 We also asked for their names, to inform you, so that we might write the names of the men who were the chief of them. 11 And thus they returned us answer, saying, 'We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth and build the house that was erected these many years ago, which a great king of Israel built and set up. 12 But because our fathers had provoked the God of heaven to wrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house and carried the people away into Babylon. 13 But in the first year of Cyrus the king of Babylon, the same king Cyrus made a decree to build this house of God. 14 And also the vessels of gold and silver of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem and brought them into the temple of Babylon, Cyrus the king took those out of the temple of Babylon, and they were delivered to someone whose name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor, 15 And said to him, "Take these vessels, go, carry them into the temple that is in Jerusalem, and let the house of God be built in its place." 16 Then the same Sheshbazzar came and laid the foundation of the house of God which is in Jerusalem. And since that time even until now it has been in building, but it is not yet finished.' 17 Now therefore, if it seems good to the king, let there be search made in the king's treasure-house, which is there at Babylon, whether it is that a decree was made by Cyrus the king to build this house of God at Jerusalem. And let the king send his pleasure to us concerning this matter."

[#ezr006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_Darius, finding the decree of Cyrus, makes a new decree for the advancement of the building, 1-12. By the help of Tatnai and Shethar-boznai, according to the decree, the temple is finished, 13-15. The feast of the dedication is kept, 16-18; and the passover, 19-22._

1 Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made in the house of the scrolls where the treasures were laid up in Babylon. 2 And a scroll was found at Achmetha in the palace that is in the province of the Medes, and in it was a record thus written: 3 "In the first year of Cyrus the king, the same Cyrus the king made a decree concerning the house of God at Jerusalem: 'Let the house be built, the place where they offered sacrifices, and let its foundations be strongly laid—its height sixty cubits and its breadth sixty cubits, 4 With three rows of great stones and a row of new timber. And let the expenses be given out of the king's house. 5 And also let the golden and silver vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple which is at Jerusalem and brought to Babylon, be restored and brought back to the temple which is at Jerusalem, each to its place, and place them in the house of God.'"

6 "Now therefore, Tatnai, governor beyond the river, Shethar-boznai, and your companions the Apharsachites, who are beyond the river, keep far from there. 7 Leave the work of this house of God alone. Let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews build this house of God in its place. 8 Moreover, I make a decree as to what you shall do to the elders of these Jews for the building of this house of God: that from the king's goods, even from the tribute beyond the river, expenses are to be paid to these men immediately so that they are not hindered, 9 And that which they have need of—young bulls, rams, and lambs, for the burnt-offerings of the God of heaven, wheat, salt, wine, and oil, according to the appointment of the priests who are at Jerusalem—let it be given to them day by day without fail 10 So that they may offer sacrifices of sweet savors to the God of heaven and pray for the life of the king and of his sons. 11 Also, I have made a decree, that whoever alters this word, let timber be pulled down from his house, and being set up, let him be hanged upon it, and let his house be made a dunghill for this. 12 And may the God who has caused his name to dwell there destroy all kings and people who attempt to alter and to destroy this house of God which is at Jerusalem. I, Darius, have made a decree. Let it be done with speed."

13 Then Tatnai, governor on this side of the river, Shethar-boznai, and their companions, speedily did according to that which Darius the king had sent. 14 And the elders of the Jews built, and they prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo. And they built and finished it according to the commandment of the God of Israel and according to the commandment of Cyrus, Darius, and Artaxerxes king of Persia. 15 And this house was finished on the third day of the month Adar, which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king.

16 And the children of Israel—the priests, the Levites, and the rest of the children of the captivity—kept the dedication of this house of God with joy. 17 And they offered at the dedication of this house of God one hundred bulls, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs, and for a sin-offering for all Israel twelve male goats, according to the number of the tribes of Israel. 18 And they set the priests in their divisions and the Levites in their courses for the service of God who is at Jerusalem, as it is written in the book of Moses.

19 And the children of the captivity kept the passover upon the fourteenth day of the first month. 20 For the priests and the Levites were purified together and all of them were pure. And they killed the passover for all the children of the captivity, for their brothers the priests, and for themselves. 21 And the children of Israel who had returned from captivity ate, along with all those who had separated themselves from the filthiness of the heathen of the land to seek the LORD God of Israel. 22 And they kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy, for the LORD had made them joyful and turned the heart of the king of Assyria to them to strengthen their hands in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel.

[#ezr007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_Ezra goes up to Jerusalem, 1-10. The gracious commission of Artaxerxes to Ezra, 11-20. Ezra blesses God for this favor, 27, 28._

1 Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia, Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, 2 The son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub, 3 The son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth, 4 The son of Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki, 5 The son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chief priest— 6 This Ezra went from Babylon, and he was a ready scribe in the law of Moses, which the LORD God of Israel had given, and the king granted him all his request, according to the hand of the LORD his God upon him. 7 And there went some of the children of Israel, the priests, the Levites, the singers, the gatekeepers, and the Nethinims to Jerusalem in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king.

8 And he came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the king. 9 For upon the first day of the first month he began to go up from Babylon, and on the first day of the fifth month he came to Jerusalem, according to the good hand of his God upon him. 10 For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the LORD, and to do it, and to teach statutes and judgments in Israel.

11 Now this is the copy of the letter that the king Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, even a scribe of the words of the commandments of the LORD and of his statutes to Israel: 12 "Artaxerxes, king of kings, to Ezra the priest, a scribe of the law of the God of heaven: Perfect peace, and at such a time. 13 I make a decree, that all those of the people of Israel and of his priests and Levites in my realm who are disposed of their own free will to go to Jerusalem, may go with you. 14 Because you are sent by the king and by his seven counselors to inquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem according to the law of your God which is in your hand, 15 And to carry the silver and gold which the king and his counselors have freely offered to the God of Israel, whose habitation is in Jerusalem, 16 And all the silver and gold that you can find in all the province of Babylon, with the voluntary-offering of the people and of the priests, offering willingly for the house of their God which is in Jerusalem, 17 Therefore you may speedily buy with this money bulls, rams, and lambs, with their food-offerings and their drink-offerings, and offer them upon the altar of the house of your God which is in Jerusalem. 18 And whatever seems good to you and to your brothers to do with the rest of the silver and gold, do that according to the will of your God. 19 The vessels also that are given to you for the service of the house of your God, deliver those before the God of Jerusalem. 20 And whatever more is needful for the house of your God, which you have occasion to bestow, bestow it out of the king's treasure-house.

21 "And I, even I, Artaxerxes the king, make a decree to all the treasurers who are beyond the river, that whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, requires of you, it shall be done speedily, 22 To one hundred talents of silver, to one hundred measures of wheat, to one hundred baths of wine, to one hundred baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how much. 23 Whatever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be diligently done for the house of the God of heaven. For why should there be wrath against the realm of the king and his sons? 24 Also, we inform you, that concerning any of the priests and Levites, singers, gatekeepers, Nethinims, or ministers of this house of God, it shall not be lawful to impose toll, tribute, or custom upon them.

25 "And you, Ezra, according to the wisdom of your God that is in your hand, set magistrates and judges who may judge all the people who are beyond the river, even all those who know the laws of your God. And you shall teach those who do not know them. 26 And whoever will not do the law of your God and the law of the king, let judgment be executed speedily upon him, whether it be to death, to banishment, to confiscation of goods, or to imprisonment."

27 Blessed be the LORD God of our fathers, who has put such a thing as this in the king's heart, to beautify the house of the LORD which is in Jerusalem, 28 And has extended mercy to me before the king and his counselors and before all the king's mighty princes. And I was strengthened as the hand of the LORD my God was upon me, and I assembled out of Israel chief men to go up with me.

[#ezr008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_The companions of Ezra who returned from Babylon, 1-14. He sends to Iddo for ministers for the temple, 15-20. He keeps a fast, 21-23. He commits the treasures to the custody of the priests, 24-30. From Ahava they come to Jerusalem, 31, 32. The treasure is weighed in the temple, 33-35. The commission is delivered, 36._

1 These are the chief of their fathers, and this is the genealogy of those who went up with me from Babylon, in the reign of Artaxerxes the king. 2 Of the sons of Phinehas: Gershom. Of the sons of Ithamar: Daniel. Of the sons of David: Hattush. 3 Of the sons of Shechaniah, of the sons of Pharosh: Zechariah, and with him were one hundred and fifty reckoned by genealogy of the males. 4 Of the sons of Pahath-moab: Elihoenai the son of Zerahiah, and with him two hundred males. 5 Of the sons of Shechaniah: the son of Jahaziel, and with him three hundred males. 6 And of the sons of Adin: Ebed the son of Jonathan, and with him fifty males. 7 Of the sons of Elam: Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah, and with him seventy males. 8 Of the sons of Shephatiah: Zebadiah the son of Michael, and with him eighty males. 9 Of the sons of Joab: Obadiah the son of Jehiel, and with him two hundred and eighteen males. 10 Of the sons of Shelomith: the son of Josiphiah, and with him one hundred and sixty males. 11 Of the sons of Bebai: Zechariah the son of Bebai, and with him twenty-eight males. 12 Of the sons of Azgad: Johanan the son of Hakkatan, and with him one hundred and ten males. 13 And of the last sons of Adonikam, whose names are these: Eliphelet, Jeiel, and Shemaiah, and with them sixty males. 14 And of the sons of Bigvai: Uthai and Zabbud, and with them seventy males.

15 And I assembled them at the river that runs to Ahava, and there we stayed in tents three days. And I viewed the people and the priests and found none of the sons of Levi there. 16 Then I sent for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, for Elnathan, for Jarib, for Elnathan, for Nathan, for Zechariah, and for Meshullam, chief men, and also for Joiarib and for Elnathan, men of understanding. 17 And I sent them with commandment to Iddo the chief in Casiphia, and I told them what they should say to Iddo and to his brothers the Nethinims in Casiphia, that they should bring to us ministers for the house of our God. 18 And by the good hand of our God upon us they brought us a man of understanding of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son of Israel: Sherebiah, with his sons and his brothers, eighteen men. 19 And they also brought Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, his brothers and their sons, twenty men, 20 And also of the Nethinims, whom David and the princes had appointed for the service of the Levites, two hundred and twenty Nethinims. All of them were expressed by name.

21 Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the Ahava River, so that we might afflict ourselves before our God to seek from him a right way for us, for our little ones, and for all our substance. 22 For I was ashamed to require of the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way, because we had spoken to the king, saying, "The hand of our God is upon all those for good who seek him, but his power and his wrath is against all those who forsake him." 23 So we fasted and implored our God for this. And he was entreated by us.

24 Then I separated twelve of the chief of the priests: Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their brothers with them. 25 And I weighed to them the silver, the gold, and the vessels, even the offering of the house of our God, which the king, his counselors, his lords, and all Israel present there had offered. 26 I even weighed to their hand six hundred and fifty talents of silver, one hundred talents of silver vessels, one hundred talents of gold, 27 Twenty basins of gold of one thousand drams, and two vessels of fine copper, precious as gold. 28 And I said to them, "You are holy to the LORD. The vessels are also holy. And the silver and the gold are a voluntary-offering to the LORD God of your fathers. 29 Watch and keep them until you weigh them in the chambers of the house of the LORD before the chief of the priests, the Levites, and chief of the fathers of Israel at Jerusalem." 30 So the priests and the Levites took the weight of the silver, the gold, and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem to the house of our God.

31 Then we departed from the Ahava River on the twelfth day of the first month to go to Jerusalem. And the hand of our God was upon us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy and from those who lay in wait along the way. 32 And we came to Jerusalem and stayed there three days.

33 Now on the fourth day the silver, the gold, and the vessels were weighed in the house of our God by the hand of Meremoth the son of Uriah the priest, and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas, and with them were the Levites Jozabad the son of Jeshua and Noadiah the son of Binnui. 34 Everything was accounted for and weighed, and all the weight was written at that time.

35 Also, the children of those who had been carried away, who had come out of the captivity, offered burnt-offerings to the God of Israel: twelve bulls for all Israel, ninety-six rams, seventy-seven lambs, and twelve male goats for a sin-offering. All this was a burnt-offering to the LORD. 36 And they delivered the king's commissions to the king's lieutenants and to the governors on this side of the river, and they furthered the people and the house of God.

[#ezr009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_Ezra mourns for the intermarrying of the people with strangers, 1-4. He prays to God, with confession of sins, 5-15._

1 Now when these things were done, the princes came to me, saying, "The people of Israel, the priests, and the Levites have not separated themselves from the people of the lands, doing according to their abominations, even of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites. 2 For they have taken some of their daughters for themselves and for their sons so that the holy nation has mixed with the people of those lands. Even the hand of the princes and rulers has been chief in this trespass." 3 And when I heard this thing, I rent my garment and my mantle, plucked off the hair of my head and of my beard, and sat down confounded. 4 Then everyone who trembled at the words of the God of Israel was assembled to me because of the transgression of those who had been carried away. And I sat confounded until the evening sacrifice.

5 And at the evening sacrifice I arose from my heaviness, and having rent my garment and my mantle, I fell upon my knees and spread out my hands to the LORD my God, 6 And said, "O my God, I am ashamed and blush to lift up my face to you, my God. For our iniquities have increased over our head, and our trespass has grown up to the heavens. 7 Since the days of our fathers we have been in a great trespass to this day. And for our iniquities we, our kings, and our priests have been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, to plundering, and to disgrace, as it is this day. 8 And now for a brief moment, grace has been shown from the LORD our God, to leave us a remnant to escape and to give us a nail in his holy place, so that our God may lighten our eyes and give us a little reviving in our bondage. 9 For we were slaves, yet our God has not forsaken us in our bondage, but has extended mercy to us in the sight of the kings of Persia, to give us a reviving, to set up the house of our God, to repair its desolations, and to give us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem.

10 "And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken your commandments, 11 Which you have commanded by your servants the prophets, saying, 'The land, to which you go to possess it, is an unclean land with the filthiness of the people of the lands, with their abominations which have filled it from one end to another with their uncleanness. 12 Now therefore, do not give your daughters to their sons, neither take their daughters to your sons, nor seek their peace or their wealth forever, so that you may be strong and eat the good of the land and leave it for an inheritance to your children forever.' 13 And after all that has come upon us for our evil deeds and for our great trespass, seeing that you, our God, have punished us less than our iniquities deserve and have given us such deliverance as this, 14 Should we again break your commandments and intermarry with the people of these abominations? Would you not be angry with us until you had consumed us so that there should be no remnant nor escaping? 15 O LORD, God of Israel, you are righteous, for we are left a remnant that has escaped. Behold, we are before you in our trespasses, for we cannot stand before you because of this."

[#ezr010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_Ezra is encouraged to reform the strange marriages, 1-5. Ezra assembles the people, 6-8. The people repent, and promise amendment, 9-14. The care to perform it, 15-17. The names of those who had married strange wives, 18-44._

1 Now when Ezra had prayed and when he had confessed, weeping and casting himself down before the house of God, there assembled to him out of Israel a very great congregation of men and women and children, for the people wept very bitterly. 2 And Shechaniah the son of Jehiel, one of the sons of Elam, answered and said to Ezra, "We have trespassed against our God and have taken foreign wives from the people of the land, yet now there is hope in Israel concerning this thing. 3 Now therefore, let us make a covenant with our God to put away all the wives and those who were born to them, according to the counsel of my lord and of those who tremble at the commandment of our God, and let it be done according to the law. 4 Arise, for this matter belongs to you. We also will be with you. Be of good courage, and do it."

5 Then Ezra arose and made the chief priests, the Levites, and all Israel to swear that they would do according to this word. And they swore. 6 Then Ezra arose from before the house of God and went into the chamber of Johanan the son of Eliashib. And when he came there, he ate no bread nor drank water, for he mourned because of the transgression of those who had been carried away. 7 And they made proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem to all the children of the captivity, that they should assemble at Jerusalem, 8 And that whoever would not come within three days, according to the counsel of the princes and the elders, all his substance should be forfeited and he himself separated from the congregation of those who had been carried away.

9 Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin assembled at Jerusalem within three days. It was the ninth month, and the twentieth day of the month. And all the people sat in the street of the house of God, trembling because of this matter and because of the great rain. 10 And Ezra the priest stood up, and said to them, "You have transgressed and have taken foreign wives to increase the trespass of Israel. 11 Now therefore, make confession to the LORD God of your fathers and do his pleasure. And separate yourselves from the people of the land and from the foreign wives." 12 Then all the congregation answered and said with a loud voice, "As you have said, so we must do. 13 But the people are many, and it is a time of much rain, and we are not able to stand abroad, neither is this a work of one day or two, for we are many who have transgressed in this thing. 14 Now let our rulers of all the congregation stand, and let all those who have taken foreign wives in our cities come at appointed times, and with them the elders of every city and its judges, until the fierce wrath of our God for this matter is turned from us." 15 Only Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahaziah the son of Tikvah were employed about this matter. And Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite helped them.

16 And the children of the captivity did so. And Ezra the priest, with certain heads of fathers' houses for each house of their fathers, all of them by their names, were separated and sat down on the first day of the tenth month to examine the matter. 17 And they finished with all the men who had taken foreign wives by the first day of the first month.

18 And among the sons of the priests there were found some who had taken foreign wives, namely, of the sons of Jeshua the son of Jozadak and his brothers: Maaseiah, Eliezer, Jarib, and Gedaliah. 19 And they gave their hands that they would put away their wives. And being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their trespass. 20 And of the sons of Immer: Hanani and Zebadiah. 21 And of the sons of Harim: Maaseiah, Elijah, Shemaiah, Jehiel, and Uzziah. 22 And of the sons of Pashur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethaneel, Jozabad, and Elasah.

23 Also of the Levites: Jozabad, Shimei, Kelaiah (the same is Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.

24 Of the singers: Eliashib. And of the gatekeepers: Shallum, Telem, and Uri.

25 Moreover, of Israel: of the sons of Parosh: Ramiah, Jeziah, Malchiah, Miamin, Eleazar, Malchijah, and Benaiah. 26 And of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth, and Eliah. 27 And of the sons of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, Jeremoth, Zabad, and Aziza. 28 Of the sons also of Bebai: Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, and Athlai. 29 And of the sons of Bani: Meshullam, Malluch, Adaiah, Jashub, Sheal, and Ramoth. 30 And of the sons of Pahath-moab: Adna, Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezaleel, Binnui, and Manasseh. 31 And of the sons of Harim: Eliezer, Ishijah, Malchiah, Shemaiah, Shimeon, 32 Benjamin, Malluch, and Shemariah. 33 Of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattathah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, and Shimei. 34 Of the sons of Bani: Maadai, Amram, Uel, 35 Benaiah, Bedeiah, Chelluh, 36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib, 37 Mattaniah, Mattenai, Jaasau, 38 Bani, Binnui, Shimei, 39 Shelemiah, Nathan, Adaiah, 40 Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai, 41 Azareel, Shelemiah, Shemariah, 42 Shallum, Amariah, and Joseph. 43 Of the sons of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jadau, Joel, and Benaiah. 44 All these had taken foreign wives, and some of them had wives by whom they had children.

[.text-center]
_[Tanach reading: go to xref:#nehemiah[Nehemiah]]_
