////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#joshua]
== The Book of Joshua

*Joshua | Ἰησοῦς | יהושע*

[#jsh001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_The Lord appoints Joshua to succeed Moses, 1, 2. The borders of the promised land, 3, 4. God promises to assist Joshua, 5-7. He gives him instructions, 8, 9. Joshua prepares the people to pass over the Jordan, 10, 11. He puts the two and a half tribes in mind of their promise to Moses, 12-15. They promise him loyalty, 16-18._

1 Now after the death of Moses the servant of the LORD, it came to pass, that the LORD spoke to Joshua the son of Nun, Moses's minister, saying, 2 "Moses my servant is dead. Now therefore, arise, go over this Jordan—you and all this people—to the land which I give to them, even to the children of Israel. 3 Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon I have given to you, as I said to Moses. 4 From the wilderness and this Lebanon even to the great river, the Euphrates River, all the land of the Hittites, and to the Great Sea toward the setting of the sun, shall be your border. [[jsh001-005]]5 There shall not be any man able to stand before you all the days of your life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not fail you, nor forsake you. 6 Be strong and of a good courage, for to this people you shall divide for an inheritance the land which I swore to their fathers to give them. 7 Only be strong and very courageous so that you may observe to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left so that you may prosper wherever you go. 8 This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth, but you shall meditate in it day and night so that you may observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then you shall make your way prosperous, and then you shall have good success. 9 Have I not commanded you? Be strong and of a good courage. Do not be afraid, neither be dismayed, for the LORD your God is with you wherever you go."

10 Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, 11 "Pass through the host and command the people, saying, 'Prepare yourselves provisions, for within three days you shall pass over this Jordan to go in to possess the land which the LORD your God gives you to possess it.'"

12 And to the Reubenites, to the Gadites, and to half the tribe of Manasseh, Joshua spoke, saying, 13 "Remember the word which Moses the servant of the LORD commanded you, saying, 'The LORD your God has given you rest and has given you this land.' 14 Your wives, your little ones, and your livestock shall remain in the land which Moses gave you on this side of the Jordan, but you shall pass before your brothers armed, all the mighty men of valor, and help them 15 Until the LORD has given your brothers rest, as he has given you, and they also have possessed the land which the LORD your God gives them. Then you shall return to the land of your possession and enjoy it, which Moses the LORD'S servant gave you on this side of the Jordan toward the sunrise."

16 And they answered Joshua, saying, "All that you command us, we will do, and wherever you send us, we will go. 17 According as we listened to Moses in all things, so we will listen to you. Only may the LORD your God be with you, as he was with Moses. 18 Everyone who rebels against your commandment and will not listen to your words in all that you command him shall be put to death. Only be strong and of a good courage."

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.5]*: Quoted in xref:#heb013-005[Hebrews 13:5].

[#jsh002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_Rahab receives and conceals the two spies sent from Shittim, 1-7. The covenant between her and them, 8-22. Their return and relation, 23, 24._

1 And Joshua the son of Nun sent from Shittim two men to spy secretly, saying, "Go, view the land, even Jericho." And they went and came into the house of a harlot named Rahab and lodged there. 2 And it was told to the king of Jericho, saying, "Behold, men came in here tonight from the children of Israel to search out the country." 3 And the king of Jericho sent to Rahab, saying, "Bring forth the men who have come to you, who have entered into your house, for they have come to search out all the country." 4 And the woman took the two men and hid them, and said thus: "Men came to me, but I did not know where they were from. 5 And it came to pass about the time of shutting the gate, when it was dark, that the men went out. Where the men went, I do not know. Pursue after them quickly, for you will overtake them." 6 But she had brought them up to the roof of the house and hid them with the stalks of flax, which she had laid in order upon the roof. 7 And the men pursued them along the way to the fords of the Jordan. And as soon as those who pursued them had gone out, they shut the gate.

8 And before they had lain down, she came up to them upon the roof, 9 And she said to the men, "I know that the LORD has given you the land, and that your terror has fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. 10 For we have heard how the LORD dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were on the other side of the Jordan, Sihon and Og, whom you utterly destroyed. 11 And as soon as we had heard these things, our hearts melted, neither did there remain any more courage in any man, because of you, for the LORD your God, he is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. 12 Now therefore, I pray you, swear to me by the LORD, since I have shown you kindness, that you will also show kindness to my father's house, and give me a true token 13 That you will save alive my father, my mother, my brothers, my sisters, and all that they have, and deliver our lives from death." 14 And the men answered her, "Our life for yours if you do not utter our business. And it shall be, when the LORD has given us the land, that we will deal kindly and truly with you."

15 Then she let them down by a cord through the window, for her house was upon the town-wall, and she dwelt upon the wall. 16 And she said to them, "Depart to the mountain, lest the pursuers meet you. And hide yourselves there for three days until the pursuers have returned. And afterward, you may go your way." 17 And the men said to her, "We will be blameless of this oath of yours which you have made us swear. 18 Behold, when we come into the land, you shall bind this line of scarlet cord in the window by which you let us down. And you shall bring your father, your mother, your brothers, and all your father's household home to you. 19 And it shall be, that whoever goes out of the doors of your house into the street, his blood shall be upon his head, and we will be guiltless. And whoever is with you in the house, his blood shall be on our head if any hand is upon him. 20 And if you utter our business, then we will be acquitted of your oath which you have made us to swear." 21 And she said, "According to your words, so be it." And she sent them away, and they departed. And she bound the scarlet line in the window.

22 And they went and came to the mountain and stayed there three days until the pursuers had returned. And the pursuers sought them throughout all the way, but did not find them. 23 So the two men returned, descended from the mountain, passed over, and came to Joshua the son of Nun, and told him all things that befell them. 24 And they said to Joshua, "Truly the LORD has delivered into our hands all the land, for even all the inhabitants of the country faint because of us."

[#jsh003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_Joshua comes to the Jordan, 1. The officers instruct the people for their passage, 2-6. The Lord encourages Joshua, 7, 8. Joshua encourages the people, 9-13. The waters of the Jordan are divided, 14-17._

1 And Joshua rose early in the morning. And they set out from Shittim and came to the Jordan—he and all the children of Israel—and lodged there before they passed over. 2 And it came to pass after three days, that the officers went through the host, 3 And they commanded the people, saying, "When you see the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God and the priests the Levites bearing it, you shall set out from your place and go after it. 4 Yet there shall be a space between you and it, about two thousand cubits by measure. Do not come near it so that you may know the way by which you must go, for you have not passed this way before."

5 And Joshua said to the people, "Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the LORD will do wonders among you." 6 And Joshua spoke to the priests, saying, "Take up the ark of the covenant and pass over before the people." And they took up the ark of the covenant and went before the people.

7 And the LORD said to Joshua, "This day I will begin to magnify you in the sight of all Israel so that they may know that as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. 8 And you shall command the priests who bear the ark of the covenant, saying, 'When you come to the brink of the water of the Jordan, you shall stand still in the Jordan.'" 9 And Joshua said to the children of Israel, "Come here, and hear the words of the LORD your God." 10 And Joshua said, "By this you shall know that the living God is among you and that he will without fail drive out from before you the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Hivites, the Perizzites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, and the Jebusites. 11 Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth passes over before you into the Jordan. 12 Now therefore, take for yourselves twelve men out of the tribes of Israel, out of every tribe a man. 13 And it shall come to pass, as soon as the soles of the feet of the priests who bear the ark of the LORD, the Lord of all the earth, rest in the waters of the Jordan, that the waters of the Jordan shall be cut off from the waters that come down from above. And they shall stand in a heap."

14 And it came to pass, that when the people set out from their tents to pass over the Jordan, the priests carried the ark of the covenant before the people. 15 And when those who bore the ark had come to the Jordan, and the feet of the priests who bore the ark were dipped in the brim of the water (for the Jordan overflows all its banks all the days of harvest), 16 The waters which came down from above stood and rose up in a heap very far from the city of Adam, that is beside Zaretan, and those which came down toward the sea of the plain, even the Salt Sea, failed, and were cut off. And the people passed through over against Jericho. 17 And the priests who bore the ark of the covenant of the LORD stood firm on dry ground in the midst of the Jordan, and all the Israelites passed over on dry ground until all the people had quite passed over the Jordan.

[#jsh004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_Twelve men are appointed to take twelve stones for a memorial out of the Jordan, 1-8. Twelve other stones are set up in the midst of the Jordan, 9. The people pass over, 10-13. God magnifies Joshua, 14. The priests commanded to come out of the Jordan, 15-19. The twelve stones are pitched in Gilgal, 20-24._

1 And it came to pass, when all the people had quite passed over the Jordan, that the LORD spoke to Joshua, saying, 2 "Take twelve men from the people, from every tribe a man, 3 And command them, saying, 'Take for yourselves from here out of the midst of the Jordan, from the place where the priests' feet stood firm, twelve stones, and you shall carry them over with you and leave them in the lodging-place where you shall lodge this night.'" 4 Then Joshua called the twelve men whom he had prepared from the children of Israel, from every tribe a man. 5 And Joshua said to them, "Pass over before the ark of the LORD your God into the midst of the Jordan, and each of you take up a stone upon his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel, 6 So that this may be a sign among you, that when your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, 'What do you mean by these stones?' 7 Then you shall answer them, 'The waters of the Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of the LORD. When it passed over the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan were cut off.' And these stones shall be for a memorial to the children of Israel forever."

8 And the children of Israel did so as Joshua commanded, and took up twelve stones from the midst of the Jordan, as the LORD commanded Joshua, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel, and carried them over with them to the place where they lodged and laid them down there. 9 And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of the Jordan, in the place where the feet of the priests who bore the ark of the covenant stood. And they are there to this day. 10 For the priests who bore the ark stood in the midst of the Jordan until everything was finished that the LORD commanded Joshua to speak to the people, according to all that Moses commanded Joshua. And the people hastened and passed over. 11 And it came to pass, when all the people had quite passed over, that the ark of the LORD and the priests passed over in the presence of the people. 12 And the children of Reuben, the children of Gad, and half the tribe of Manasseh passed over armed before the children of Israel, as Moses directed them. 13 About forty thousand prepared for war passed over before the LORD to battle, to the plains of Jericho.

14 On that day the LORD magnified Joshua in the sight of all Israel, and they feared him, as they feared Moses, all the days of his life.

15 And the LORD spoke to Joshua, saying, 16 "Command the priests who bear the ark of the testimony that they come up out of the Jordan." 17 Joshua therefore commanded the priests, saying, "Come up out of the Jordan." 18 And it came to pass, when the priests who bore the ark of the covenant of the LORD had come up out of the midst of the Jordan, and the soles of the priests' feet were lifted up upon the dry land, that the waters of the Jordan returned to their place and flowed over all its banks as they did before.

19 And the people came up out of the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month and encamped in Gilgal, in the east border of Jericho. 20 And those twelve stones which they took out of the Jordan, Joshua set up in Gilgal. 21 And he spoke to the children of Israel, saying, "When your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, 'What do these stones mean?' 22 Then you shall let your children know, saying, 'Israel came over this Jordan on dry land.' 23 For the LORD your God dried up the waters of the Jordan from before you until you had passed over, as the LORD your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up from before us until we had gone over, 24 So that all the people of the earth might know that the hand of the LORD is mighty, and that you might fear the LORD your God forever."

[#jsh005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_The Canaanites are afraid, 1. Joshua renews circumcision, 2-9. The passover is kept at Gilgal, 10, 11. Manna ceases, 12. An Angel appears to Joshua, 13-15._

1 And it came to pass, when all the kings of the Amorites who were on the side of the Jordan westward and all the kings of the Canaanites who were by the sea heard that the LORD had dried up the waters of the Jordan from before the children of Israel until they had passed over, that their heart melted, neither was there spirit in them anymore, because of the children of Israel.

2 At that time the LORD said to Joshua, "Make yourself sharp knives and circumcise the children of Israel again the second time." 3 And Joshua made himself sharp knives and circumcised the children of Israel at the Hill of the Foreskins. 4 And this is the cause why Joshua circumcised [them]: All the people who came out of Egypt, who were males, even all the men of war died in the wilderness by the way, after they came out of Egypt. 5 Now all the people who came out were circumcised, but all the people who were born in the wilderness by the way as they came forth from Egypt had not been circumcised. 6 For the children of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness until all the people who were men of war who came out of Egypt were consumed because they did not obey the voice of the LORD, to whom the LORD swore that he would not show them the land which the LORD swore to their fathers that he would give us, a land that flows with milk and honey. 7 And their children, whom he raised up in their stead, Joshua circumcised, for they were uncircumcised, because they had not circumcised them along the way.

8 And it came to pass when they had finished circumcising all the people, that they stayed in their places in the camp until they were whole. 9 And the LORD said to Joshua, "This day I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from off you." Therefore, the name of the place is called Gilgal to this day.

10 And the children of Israel encamped in Gilgal and kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the month at evening in the plains of Jericho. 11 And they ate unleavened cakes and parched grain from the produce of the land on the next day after the passover—on that very day. 12 And the manna ceased on the next day after they had eaten from the produce of the land. The children of Israel did not have manna anymore, but they ate the fruit of the land of Canaan that year.

13 And it came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho, that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, there stood a man over against him with his sword drawn in his hand. And Joshua went to him, and said to him, "Are you for us or for our adversaries?" 14 And he said, "No, but as captain of the host of the LORD I have now come." And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and worshiped, and said to him, "What does my lord say to his servant?" 15 And the captain of the LORD'S host said to Joshua, "Take your shoes off your feet, for the place on which you stand is holy." And Joshua did so.

[#jsh006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_Jericho is shut up, 1. God instructs Joshua how to besiege it, 2-11. The city is compassed, 12-16. It must be accursed, 17-19. The walls fall down, 20, 21. Rahab is saved, 22-25. The builder of Jericho is cursed, 26, 27._

1 Now Jericho was closely shut up because of the children of Israel. No one went out, and no one came in. 2 And the LORD said to Joshua, "Behold, I have given into your hand Jericho, its king, and the mighty men of valor. 3 And you shall compass the city—all the men of war—and go around the city once. Thus you shall do six days. 4 And seven priests shall bear before the ark seven trumpets of rams' horns. And the seventh day you shall compass the city seven times, and the priests shall blow with the trumpets. 5 And it shall come to pass, that when they make a long blast with the ram's horn, and when you hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout. And the wall of the city shall fall down flat, and the people shall each ascend straight before him."

6 And Joshua the son of Nun called the priests, and said to them, "Take up the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the LORD." 7 And he said to the people, "Pass on, and compass the city, and let him who is armed pass on before the ark of the LORD." 8 And it came to pass, when Joshua had spoken to the people, that the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams' horns passed on before the LORD and blew with the trumpets. And the ark of the covenant of the LORD followed them. 9 And the armed men went before the priests who blew with the trumpets, and the rear-guard came after the ark, the priests going on and blowing with the trumpets. 10 And Joshua had commanded the people, saying, "You shall not shout nor make any noise with your voice, neither shall any word proceed from your mouth until the day I bid you to shout. Then you shall shout." 11 So the ark of the LORD compassed the city, going around it once. And they came into the camp and lodged in the camp.

12 And Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests took up the ark of the LORD. 13 And seven priests bearing seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the LORD went on continually and blew with the trumpets. And the armed men went before them, but the rear-guard came after the ark of the LORD, the priests going on and blowing with the trumpets. 14 And on the second day they compassed the city once and returned into the camp. They did so for six days.

15 And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they rose early about the dawning of the day and compassed the city after the same manner seven times. Only on that day they compassed the city seven times. 16 And it came to pass at the seventh time, when the priests blew with the trumpets, Joshua said to the people, "Shout, for the LORD has given you the city. 17 And the city shall be accursed, even it and all who are in it, to the LORD. Only Rahab the harlot shall live—she and all who are with her in the house—because she hid the messengers that we sent. 18 But as for you, only keep yourselves from the accursed thing, lest you make yourselves accursed when you take of the accursed thing, and make the camp of Israel a curse and trouble it. 19 But all the silver, gold, and vessels of brass and iron are consecrated to the LORD. They shall come into the treasury of the LORD." 20 So the people shouted when the priests blew with the trumpets. And it came to pass, when the people heard the sound of the trumpet and the people shouted with a great shout, that the wall fell down flat so that the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took the city. 21 And they utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man and woman, young and old, ox, sheep, and donkey, with the edge of the sword.

22 But Joshua had said to the two men who spied out the country, "Go into the harlot's house and bring out from there the woman and all that she has, as you swore to her." 23 And the young men who were spies went in and brought out Rahab, her father, her mother, her brothers, and all that she had. And they brought out all her kindred and left them outside the camp of Israel. 24 And they burnt the city and all that was in it with fire. Only the silver, the gold, and the vessels of brass and of iron, they put into the treasury of the house of the LORD. 25 But Rahab the harlot, her father's household, and all that she had, Joshua saved alive. And she dwells in Israel even to this day because she hid the messengers which Joshua sent to spy out Jericho.

26 And Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, "Cursed is the man before the LORD who rises up and builds this city Jericho. He shall lay its foundation in his first-born, and in his youngest son he shall set up its gates." 27 So the LORD was with Joshua, and his fame was noised throughout all the country.

[#jsh007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_The Israelites are smitten at Ai, 1-5. Joshua's prayer, 6-9. God instructs him what to do, 10-15. Achan is taken by the lot, 16-18. His confession, 19-23. He and all he had are destroyed in the valley of Achor, 24-26._

1 But the children of Israel committed a trespass in the accursed thing, for Achan the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, took some of the accursed things. And the anger of the LORD was kindled against the children of Israel.

2 And Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is beside Beth-aven, on the east side of Beth-el, and spoke to them, saying, "Go up and view the country." And the men went up and viewed Ai. 3 And they returned to Joshua, and said to him, "Do not let all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up and smite Ai. And do not make all the people to labor there, for they are but few." 4 So there went up there of the people about three thousand men. And they fled before the men of Ai. 5 And the men of Ai smote about thirty-six of them, and they chased them from before the gate even to Shebarim and smote them in the going down. Therefore, the hearts of the people melted and became as water.

6 And Joshua rent his clothes and fell to the earth upon his face before the ark of the LORD until the evening—he and the elders of Israel—and put dust upon their heads. 7 And Joshua said, "Alas, O Lord GOD, why have you at all brought this people over the Jordan to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites to destroy us? O that we had been content and dwelt on the other side of the Jordan. 8 O Lord, what shall I say when Israel has turned their backs before their enemies? 9 For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it, and will surround us and cut off our name from the earth. And what will you do to your great name?"

10 And the LORD said to Joshua, "Arise. Why do you lie thus upon your face? 11 Israel has sinned, and they have also transgressed my covenant which I commanded them, for they have even taken some of the accursed things, and they have also stolen, dissembled, and put them even among their own goods. 12 Therefore, the children of Israel could not stand before their enemies, but turned their backs before their enemies, because they were accursed. Neither will I be with you anymore unless you destroy the accursed things from among you. 13 Rise, sanctify the people, and say, 'Sanctify yourselves for tomorrow, for thus says the LORD God of Israel: "There is an accursed thing in the midst of you, O Israel. You cannot stand before your enemies until you take away the accursed thing from among you." 14 In the morning therefore, you shall be brought according to your tribes. And it shall be, that the tribe which the LORD takes shall come according to their families, and the family which the LORD takes shall come by households, and the household which the LORD takes shall come man by man. 15 And it shall be, that he who is taken with the accursed thing shall be burnt with fire—he and all that he has—because he has transgressed the covenant of the LORD and because he has wrought folly in Israel.'"

16 So Joshua rose early in the morning and brought Israel by their tribes, and the tribe of Judah was taken. 17 And he brought the family of Judah, and he took the family of the Zarhites. And he brought the family of the Zarhites man by man, and Zabdi was taken. 18 And he brought his household man by man, and Achan the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, was taken. 19 And Joshua said to Achan, "My son, give, I pray you, glory to the LORD God of Israel and make confession to him. And tell me now what you have done. Do not hide it from me." 20 And Achan answered Joshua, and said, "Indeed, I have sinned against the LORD God of Israel, and this is what I have done: 21 When I saw among the plunder a fine Babylonish garment, two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold of fifty shekels weight, I coveted them and took them, and behold, they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent, and the silver under it."

22 So Joshua sent messengers and they ran to the tent, and behold, it was hid in his tent, and the silver under it. 23 And they took them from the midst of the tent, brought them to Joshua and to all the children of Israel, and laid them out before the LORD. 24 And Joshua, and all Israel with him, took Achan the son of Zerah, the silver, the garment, the wedge of gold, his sons, his daughters, his oxen, his donkeys, his sheep, his tent, and all that he had. And they brought them to the valley of Achor. 25 And Joshua said, "Why have you troubled us? The LORD shall trouble you this day." And all Israel stoned him with stones. And they burned them with fire after they had stoned them with stones. 26 And they raised over him a great heap of stones to this day. So the LORD turned from the fierceness of his anger. Therefore, the name of that place was called the Valley of Achor to this day.

[#jsh008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_God encourages Joshua, 1, 2. The stratagem whereby Ai was taken, 3-28. The king thereof is hanged, 29. Joshua builds an altar, 30, 31; writes the law on stones, 32; and pronounces the blessings and curses, 33-35._

1 And the LORD said to Joshua, "Do not fear, neither be dismayed. Take all the people of war with you, and arise, go up to Ai. Behold, I have given into your hand the king of Ai and his people, his city, and his land. 2 And you shall do to Ai and her king as you did to Jericho and her king. Only its loot and its livestock you shall take as plunder for yourselves. Set an ambush for the city behind it."

3 So Joshua and all the people of war arose to go up against Ai. And Joshua chose out thirty thousand mighty men of valor and sent them away by night. 4 And he commanded them, saying, "Behold, you shall lie in wait against the city, even behind the city. Do not go very far from the city, but all of you be ready. 5 And I and all the people who are with me, will approach the city. And it shall come to pass when they come out against us, as at the first, that we will flee before them 6 (For they will come out after us) until we have drawn them from the city, for they will say, 'They flee before us, as at the first.' Therefore, we will flee before them. 7 Then you shall rise from the ambush and seize upon the city, for the LORD your God will deliver it into your hand. 8 And it shall be when you have taken the city, that you shall set the city on fire. According to the commandment of the LORD you shall do. Behold, I have commanded you." 9 Joshua therefore sent them forth. And they went to lie in ambush and stayed between Beth-el and Ai on the west side of Ai, but Joshua lodged that night among the people.

10 And Joshua rose early in the morning and numbered the people and went up—he and the elders of Israel—before the people to Ai. 11 And all the people, even the people of war who were with him, went up, drew near, came before the city, and pitched on the north side of Ai. Now there was a valley between them and Ai. 12 And he took about five thousand men and set them to lie in ambush between Beth-el and Ai on the west side of the city. 13 So they set the people with all the host to the north of the city and their ambush to the west of the city. And Joshua went that night into the midst of the valley. 14 And it came to pass when the king of Ai saw it, that they hastened and rose early, and the men of the city went out against Israel to battle—he and all his people—at a time appointed, before the plain. But he did not know that there was an ambush against him behind the city. 15 And Joshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before them and fled by the way of the wilderness. 16 And all the people who were in Ai were called together to pursue them. And they pursued Joshua and were drawn away from the city. 17 And there was not a man left in Ai or Beth-el who did not go out after Israel. And they left the city open and pursued Israel.

18 And the LORD said to Joshua, "Stretch out the spear that is in your hand toward Ai, for I will give it into your hand." And Joshua stretched out the spear that he had in his hand toward the city. 19 And the ambush arose quickly out of their place, and they ran as soon as he had stretched out his hand. And they entered into the city, took it, and hastened to set the city on fire. 20 And when the men of Ai looked behind them, they saw, and behold, the smoke of the city ascended to heaven, and they had no power to flee this way or that way. And the people who fled to the wilderness turned back upon the pursuers. 21 And when Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had taken the city and that the smoke of the city ascended, they turned back and slew the men of Ai. 22 And the other issued out of the city against them so that they were in the midst of Israel, some on this side and some on that side. And they smote them so that they let none of them remain or escape. 23 And the king of Ai they took alive and brought him to Joshua.

24 And it came to pass when Israel had made an end of slaying all the inhabitants of Ai in the field, in the wilderness in which they chased them, and when they had all fallen on the edge of the sword until they were consumed, that all the Israelites returned to Ai and smote it with the edge of the sword. 25 And so it was, that all who fell that day, both of men and women, were twelve thousand, even all the men of Ai. 26 For Joshua did not draw his hand back with which he stretched out the spear until he had utterly destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai. 27 Only the livestock and the loot of that city Israel took as plunder for themselves, according to the word of the LORD which he commanded Joshua. 28 And Joshua burnt Ai and made it a heap forever, even a desolation to this day. 29 And the king of Ai he hanged on a tree until evening. And as soon as the sun was down, Joshua commanded that they should take his carcass down from the tree, cast it at the entering of the gate of the city, and raise upon it a great heap of stones, which remains to this day.

30 Then Joshua built an altar to the LORD God of Israel on mount Ebal, 31 As Moses the servant of the LORD commanded the children of Israel, as it is written in the book of the law of Moses—an altar of whole stones, over which no man has lifted up any iron. And they offered upon it burnt-offerings to the LORD and sacrificed peace-offerings. 32 And he wrote there upon the stones a copy of the law of Moses, which he wrote in the presence of the children of Israel. 33 And all Israel, their elders, officers, and their judges stood on this side of the ark and on that side before the priests the Levites who bore the ark of the covenant of the LORD—the stranger as well as he who was born among them. Half of them were over against mount Gerizim, and half of them over against mount Ebal, as Moses the servant of the LORD had commanded before, to bless the people of Israel. 34 And afterward, he read all the words of the law, the blessings and cursings, according to all that is written in the book of the law. 35 There was not a word of all that Moses commanded which Joshua did not read before all the congregation of Israel, with the women, the little ones, and the strangers who were living among them.

[#jsh009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_The kings combine against Israel, 1, 2. The Gibeonites by craft obtain a league, 3-21. They are condemned to perpetual bondage, 22-27._

1 And it came to pass, when all the kings who were on this side of the Jordan heard these things—those in the hills, in the valleys, and in all the coasts of the Great Sea over against Lebanon, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite— 2 That they assembled themselves with one accord to fight with Joshua and with Israel.

3 And when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and to Ai, 4 They worked craftily, and went and made as if they had been ambassadors, and took old sacks upon their donkeys, along with wine-bottles, old, rent, and bound up, 5 And also old and patched shoes upon their feet and old garments upon themselves. And all the bread of their provision was dry and moldy. 6 And they went to Joshua in the camp at Gilgal, and said to him and to the men of Israel, "We have come from a far country. Now therefore, make a league with us." 7 And the men of Israel said to the Hivites, "It may be that you dwell among us. How shall we make a league with you?" 8 And they said to Joshua, "We are your servants." And Joshua said to them, "Who are you? Where did you come from?" 9 And they said to him, "From a very far country your servants have come because of the name of the LORD your God, for we have heard the fame of him, and all that he did in Egypt, 10 And all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon king of Heshbon and to Og king of Bashan, who was at Ashtaroth. 11 Therefore, our elders and all the inhabitants of our country spoke to us, saying, 'Take provisions with you for the journey and go to meet them, and say to them, "We are your servants. And now, make a league with us."' 12 Our bread we took hot for our provision out of our houses on the day we came forth to go to you, but now, behold, it is dry and moldy. 13 And these bottles of wine which we filled were new, and behold, they are rent. And our garments and our shoes have become old by reason of the very long journey." 14 And the men took some of their provisions, but did not ask counsel at the mouth of the LORD. 15 And Joshua made peace with them and made a league with them to let them live. And the princes of the congregation swore to them.

16 And it came to pass at the end of three days after they had made a league with them, that they heard that they were their neighbors and that they dwelt among them. 17 And the children of Israel journeyed and came to their cities on the third day. Now their cities were Gibeon, Chephirah, Beeroth, and Kirjath-jearim. 18 And the children of Israel did not smite them because the princes of the congregation had sworn to them by the LORD God of Israel. And all the congregation murmured against the princes. 19 But all the princes said to all the congregation, "We have sworn to them by the LORD God of Israel. Now therefore, we may not touch them. 20 We will do this to them: we will even let them live, lest wrath be upon us because of the oath which we swore to them." 21 And the princes said to them, "Let them live, but let them be hewers of wood and drawers of water for all the congregation, as the princes had promised them."

22 And Joshua called for them and spoke to them, saying, "Why have you deceived us, saying, 'We are very far from you,' when you dwell among us? 23 Now therefore, you are cursed, and none of you shall be freed from being servants and hewers of wood and drawers of water for the house of my God." 24 And they answered Joshua, and said, "Because it was certainly told to your servants how the LORD your God commanded his servant Moses to give you all the land and to destroy all the inhabitants of the land from before you, therefore we were greatly afraid for our lives because of you and have done this thing. 25 And now, behold, we are in your hand. Do as it seems good and right to you to do to us." 26 And thus he did to them, and delivered them out of the hand of the children of Israel, and they did not slay them. 27 And Joshua made them that day hewers of wood and drawers of water for the congregation and for the altar of the LORD, even to this day, in the place which he should choose.

[#jsh010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_Five kings war against Gibeon, 1-5. Joshua rescues it, 6-9. God fights against them with hailstones, 10, 11. The sun and moon stand still at the word of Joshua, 12-15. The five kings are shut up in a cave, 16-21. They are brought forth, 22, 23; scornfully used, 24, 25; and hanged, 26, 27. Seven more kings are conquered, 28-42. Joshua returns to Gilgal, 43._

1 Now it came to pass, when Adoni-zedec king of Jerusalem had heard how Joshua had taken Ai and had utterly destroyed it—as he had done to Jericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king—and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel and were among them, 2 That they feared greatly because Gibeon was a great city, as one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all its men were mighty. 3 Therefore, Adoni-zedec king of Jerusalem sent to Hoham king of Hebron, to Piram king of Jarmuth, to Japhia king of Lachish, and to Debir king of Eglon, saying, 4 "Come up to me and help me so that we may smite Gibeon, for it has made peace with Joshua and with the children of Israel." 5 Therefore, the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon assembled themselves and went up—they and all their hosts—and encamped before Gibeon and made war against it.

6 And the men of Gibeon sent to Joshua in the camp at Gilgal, saying, "Do not slack your hand from your servants. Come up to us quickly and save us, and help us, for all the kings of the Amorites who dwell in the mountains are assembled against us." 7 So Joshua ascended from Gilgal—he, all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valor. 8 And the LORD said to Joshua, "Do not fear them, for I have delivered them into your hand. There shall not a man of them stand before you." 9 Joshua therefore came to them suddenly, and went up from Gilgal all night. 10 And the LORD completely defeated them before Israel, slew them with a great slaughter at Gibeon, chased them along the way that goes up to Beth-horon, and smote them to Azekah and to Makkedah. 11 And it came to pass as they fled from before Israel and were in the descent to Beth-horon, that the LORD cast down great stones from heaven upon them to Azekah, and they died. There were more who died with hailstones than those whom the children of Israel slew with the sword.

12 Then Joshua spoke to the LORD in the day when the LORD delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel, and he said in the sight of Israel,

[cols="7%,93%",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
|
|"Sun, stand still upon Gibeon, [.linebr]#/# +
and you, Moon, in the valley of Ajalon."

|
|13 And the sun stood still and the moon stayed [.linebr]#/# +
until the people had avenged themselves upon their enemies.
|===

Is this not written in the book of Jasher? So the sun stood still in the midst of the heavens and did not hasten to go down about a whole day. 14 And there was no day like that before it or after it, that the LORD listened to the voice of a man, for the LORD fought for Israel.

15 And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp at Gilgal.

16 But these five kings fled and hid themselves in a cave at Makkedah. 17 And it was told to Joshua, saying, "The five kings are found hid in a cave at Makkedah." 18 And Joshua said, "Roll great stones upon the mouth of the cave and set men by it to keep them. 19 And do not stay, but pursue your enemies and smite the hindmost of them. Do not allow them to enter into their cities, for the LORD your God has delivered them into your hand." 20 And it came to pass, when Joshua and the children of Israel had made an end of slaying them with a very great slaughter until they were consumed, that the rest who remained of them entered into fortified cities. 21 And all the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkedah in peace. No one moved his tongue against any of the children of Israel.

22 Then Joshua said, "Open the mouth of the cave and bring those five kings to me out of the cave." 23 And they did so, and brought those five kings to him out of the cave: the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon. 24 And it came to pass, when they brought out those kings to Joshua, that Joshua called for all the men of Israel, and said to the captains of the men of war who went with him, "Come near and put your feet upon the necks of these kings." And they came near and put their feet upon the necks of them. 25 And Joshua said to them, "Do not fear, nor be dismayed, be strong and of good courage, for thus the LORD shall do to all your enemies against whom you fight." 26 And afterward, Joshua smote them, slew them, and hanged them on five trees. And they were hanging upon the trees until the evening. 27 And it came to pass at the time of the setting of the sun, that Joshua commanded, and they took them down from the trees and cast them into the cave in which they had been hid and laid great stones upon the cave's mouth, which remain until this very day.

28 And that day Joshua took Makkedah and smote it with the edge of the sword, and its king he utterly destroyed—them, and all the souls who were in it. He let no one remain. And he did to the king of Makkedah as he did to the king of Jericho.

29 Then Joshua passed from Makkedah, and all Israel with him, to Libnah, and fought against Libnah. 30 And the LORD delivered it also, and its king, into the hand of Israel. And he smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls who were in it. He let no one remain in it, but did to its king as he did to the king of Jericho.

31 And Joshua passed from Libnah, and all Israel with him, to Lachish, and encamped against it and fought against it. 32 And the LORD delivered Lachish into the hand of Israel who took it on the second day and smote it with the edge of the sword, along with all the souls who were in it, according to all that he had done to Libnah.

33 Then Horam king of Gezer came up to help Lachish. And Joshua smote him and his people until he had left him no one remaining.

34 And from Lachish Joshua passed to Eglon, and all Israel with him, and they encamped against it and fought against it. 35 And they took it on that day and smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls who were in it he utterly destroyed that day, according to all that he had done to Lachish.

36 And Joshua went up from Eglon, and all Israel with him, to Hebron, and they fought against it. 37 And they took it and smote it with the edge of the sword, along with its king, all its cities, and all the souls who were in them. He left no one remaining (according to all that he had done to Eglon) but destroyed it utterly, and all the souls who were in it.

38 And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to Debir, and fought against it. 39 And he took it, its king, and all its cities, and they smote them with the edge of the sword and utterly destroyed all the souls who were in them. He left no one remaining. As he had done to Hebron, so he did to Debir and to its king, as he had done also to Libnah and to its king.

40 So Joshua smote all the country of the hills, of the south, of the valley, and of the springs, and all their kings. He left no one remaining, but utterly destroyed all that breathed, as the LORD God of Israel commanded. 41 And Joshua smote them from Kadesh-barnea even to Gaza, and all the country of Goshen, even to Gibeon. 42 And all these kings and their land Joshua took at one time because the LORD God of Israel fought for Israel. 43 And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp in Gilgal.

[#jsh011%breakable]
=== Chapter 11

[.outline.text-center]
_Various kings overcome at the waters of Merom, 1-9. Hazor is taken and burnt, 10-15. All the country taken by Joshua, 16-20. The Anakims cut off, 21, 22. The land rests from war, 23._

1 And it came to pass when Jabin king of Hazor had heard those things, that he sent to Jobab king of Madon, to the king of Shimron, to the king Achshaph, 2 And to the kings who were on the north of the mountains, of the plains south of Cinneroth, in the valley, and in the borders of Dor on the west, 3 And to the Canaanite on the east and on the west, to the Amorite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Jebusite in the mountains, and to the Hivite under Hermon in the land of Mizpeh. 4 And they went out—they and all their hosts with them, many people, even as the sand that is upon the sea-shore in multitude, with horses and chariots very numerous. 5 And when all these kings met together, they came and encamped together at the waters of Merom to fight against Israel.

6 And the LORD said to Joshua, "Do not be afraid because of them, for tomorrow about this time I will deliver them up all slain before Israel. You shall hamstring their horses and burn their chariots with fire." 7 So Joshua and all the people of war with him came suddenly against them by the waters of Merom, and they fell upon them. 8 And the LORD delivered them into the hand of Israel, who smote them and chased them to great Zidon, to Misrephoth-maim, and to the valley of Mizpeh eastward. And they smote them until they left to them no one remaining. 9 And Joshua did to them as the LORD told him: he hamstrung their horses and burnt their chariots with fire.

10 And Joshua at that time turned back and took Hazor and smote its king with the sword, for Hazor formerly was the head of all those kingdoms. 11 And they smote all the souls who were in it with the edge of the sword, utterly destroying them. There was not any left to breathe. And he burnt Hazor with fire. 12 And all the cities of those kings, and all their kings, Joshua took and smote them with the edge of the sword, and he utterly destroyed them, as Moses the servant of the LORD commanded. 13 But as for the cities that stood still in their strength, Israel burned none of them, except Hazor only. Joshua burned that one. 14 And all the loot of these cities and the livestock, the children of Israel took as plunder for themselves. But they smote every man with the edge of the sword until they had destroyed them, neither did they leave any who breathed. 15 As the LORD commanded Moses his servant, so Moses commanded Joshua. And Joshua did so. He left nothing undone of all that the LORD commanded Moses.

16 So Joshua took all that land, the hills, all the south country, all the land of Goshen, the valley, the plain, the mountain of Israel, and the valley of the same, 17 Even from the mount Halak that goes up to Seir, even to Baal-gad in the valley of Lebanon under mount Hermon. And all their kings he took, smote them, and slew them. 18 Joshua made war a long time with all those kings. 19 There was not a city that made peace with the children of Israel, except the Hivites the inhabitants of Gibeon. They took all in battle. 20 For it was of the LORD to harden their hearts and to come against Israel in battle so that he might utterly destroy them and that they might have no favor, in order that he might destroy them as the LORD commanded Moses.

21 And at that time, Joshua came and cut off the Anakims from the mountains, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, from all the mountains of Judah, and from all the mountains of Israel. Joshua utterly destroyed them with their cities. 22 There was none of the Anakims left in the land of the children of Israel. Only in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod some remained. 23 So Joshua took the whole land, according to all that the LORD said to Moses, and Joshua gave it for an inheritance to Israel according to their divisions by their tribes. And the land rested from war.

[#jsh012%breakable]
=== Chapter 12

[.outline.text-center]
_The two kings whose countries Moses took and disposed of, 1-6. The thirty-one kings on the other side of the Jordan which Joshua smote, 7-24._

1 Now these are the kings of the land whom the children of Israel smote and possessed their land on the other side of the Jordan toward the rising of the sun, from the Arnon River, to mount Hermon, and all the plain on the east: 2 Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon and ruled from Aroer, which is upon the bank of the Arnon River, and from the middle of the river and from half Gilead, even to the Jabbok River, which is the border of the children of Ammon; 3 And from the plain to the sea of Cinneroth on the east and to the sea of the plain, even the Salt Sea on the east, the way to Beth-jeshimoth; and from the south, under Ashdoth-pisgah; 4 And the border of Og king of Bashan, who was of the remnant of the Rephaim, who dwelt at Ashtaroth and at Edrei, 5 And reigned over mount Hermon, in Salcah and in all Bashan, to the border of the Geshurites, the Maachathites, and half of Gilead, the border of Sihon king of Heshbon. 6 Moses, the servant of the LORD, and the children of Israel smote them. And Moses, the servant of the LORD, gave it for a possession to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh.

7 And these are the kings of the country whom Joshua and the children of Israel smote on this side of the Jordan on the west, from Baal-gad in the valley of Lebanon, even to the mount Halak that goes up to Seir—which Joshua gave to the tribes of Israel for a possession according to their divisions, 8 In the mountains, in the valleys, in the plains, in the springs, in the wilderness, and in the south country—[the land of] the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites: 9 The king of Jericho one; the king of Ai, which is beside Beth-el, one; 10 The king of Jerusalem, one; the king of Hebron, one; 11 The king of Jarmuth, one; the king of Lachish, one; 12 The king of Eglon, one; the king of Gezer, one; 13 The king of Debir, one; the king of Geder, one; 14 The king of Hormah, one; the king of Arad, one; 15 The king of Libnah, one; the king of Adullam, one; 16 The king of Makkedah, one; the king of Beth-el, one; 17 The king of Tappuah, one; the king of Hepher, one; 18 The king of Aphek, one; the king of Lasharon, one; 19 The king of Madon, one; the king of Hazor, one; 20 The king of Shimron-meron, one; the king of Achshaph, one; 21 The king of Taanach, one; the king of Megiddo, one; 22 The king of Kedesh, one; the king of Jokneam of Carmel, one; 23 The king of Dor in the border of Dor, one; the king of the nations of Gilgal, one; 24 The king of Tirzah, one. In all, there were thirty-one kings.

[#jsh013%breakable]
=== Chapter 13

[.outline.text-center]
_The bounds of the land not yet conquered, 1-7. The inheritance of the two and a half tribes, 8-13. The Lord and his sacrifices are the inheritance of Levi, 14. The bounds of the inheritance of Reuben, 15-21. Balaam slain, 22, 23. The bounds of the inheritance of Gad, 24-28; and of the half tribe of Manasseh 29-33._

1 Now Joshua was old and advanced in years, and the LORD said to him, "You are old and advanced in years, and there remains yet very much land to be possessed. 2 This is the land that yet remains: all the borders of the Philistines, and all Geshuri, 3 From Sihor, which is before Egypt, even to the borders of Ekron northward, which is counted to the Canaanite; five lords of the Philistines, the Gazathites, and the Ashdothites, the Eshkalonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites; also the Avites, 4 From the south all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah that is beside the Sidonians, to Aphek to the borders of the Amorites; 5 And the land of the Giblites and all Lebanon toward the sunrise, from Baal-gad under mount Hermon to the entering into Hamath. 6 And the inhabitants of the hill-country from Lebanon to Misrephoth-maim and all the Sidonians, I will drive them out from before the children of Israel. Only divide it by lot to the Israelites for an inheritance, as I have commanded you. 7 Now therefore, divide this land for an inheritance to the nine tribes and the half tribe of Manasseh."

8 With him the Reubenites and the Gadites have received their inheritance, which Moses gave them, beyond the Jordan eastward, even as Moses the servant of the LORD gave them: 9 From Aroer that is upon the bank of the Arnon River, and the city that is in the midst of the river, and all the plain of Medeba to Dibon; 10 And all the cities of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, to the border of the children of Ammon; 11 And Gilead, the border of the Geshurites and Maachathites, all mount Hermon, and all Bashan to Salcah; 12 All the kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei, who remained of the remnant of the Rephaim. Moses smote these and cast them out. 13 Nevertheless, the children of Israel did not expel the Geshurites nor the Maachathites, but the Geshurites and the Maachathites dwell among the Israelites until this day. 14 Only to the tribe of Levi he gave no inheritance. The sacrifices of the LORD God of Israel made by fire are their inheritance, as he said to them.

15 And Moses gave to the tribe of the children of Reuben inheritance according to their families. 16 And their border was from Aroer that is on the bank of the Arnon River, and the city that is in the midst of the river, and all the plain by Medeba; 17 Heshbon, and all her cities that are in the plain: Dibon, Bamoth-baal, Beth-baal-meon, 18 Jahaza, Kedemoth, Mephaath, 19 Kirjathaim, Sibmah, Zareth-shahar on the mountain of the valley, 20 Beth-peor, Ashdoth-pisgah, Beth-jeshimoth, 21 All the cities of the plain, and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon. Moses smote him along with the princes of Midian: Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, and Reba—chiefs of Sihon who dwelt in the country. 22 Balaam, the son of Beor, the soothsayer, the children of Israel also slayed with the sword, among those who were slain by them. 23 And the border of the children of Reuben was the Jordan and its border. This was the inheritance of the children of Reuben after their families: the cities and their villages.

24 And Moses gave inheritance to the tribe of Gad, even to the children of Gad according to their families. 25 And their border was Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the children of Ammon, to Aroer that is before Rabbah; 26 And from Heshbon to Ramath-mizpeh, and Betonim; and from Mahanaim to the border of Debir; 27 And in the valley, Beth-aram, Beth-nimrah, Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of Sihon king of Heshbon, the Jordan and its border, even to the edge of the sea of Cinneroth, on the other side of the Jordan eastward. 28 This is the inheritance of the children of Gad after their families: the cities and their villages.

29 And Moses gave inheritance to the half-tribe of Manasseh. And this was the possession of the half-tribe of the children of Manasseh by their families. 30 And their border was from Mahanaim, all Bashan, all the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair, which are in Bashan, sixty cities; 31 And half of Gilead, Ashtaroth, and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were pertaining to the children of Machir the son of Manasseh, even to the one half of the children of Machir by their families.

32 These are the countries which Moses distributed for inheritance in the plains of Moab on the other side of the Jordan by Jericho eastward. 33 But to the tribe of Levi, Moses did not give any inheritance. The LORD God of Israel was their inheritance, as he said to them.

[#jsh014%breakable]
=== Chapter 14

[.outline.text-center]
_The nine and a half tribes are to have their inheritance by lot, 1-5. Caleb by privilege obtains Hebron, 6-15._

1 And these are the countries which the children of Israel inherited in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel distributed for inheritance to them. 2 Their inheritance was by lot, as the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses, for the nine tribes and for the half-tribe. 3 For Moses had given the inheritance of two tribes and a half-tribe on the other side of the Jordan, but to the Levites he gave no inheritance among them. 4 For the children of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim; therefore, they gave no part to the Levites in the land, except cities to dwell in with their suburbs for their livestock and for their substance. 5 As the LORD commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did, and they divided the land.

6 Then the children of Judah came to Joshua in Gilgal. And Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite said to him, "You know the thing that the LORD said to Moses the man of God concerning me and you in Kadesh-barnea. 7 I was forty years old when Moses the servant of the LORD sent me from Kadesh-barnea to explore the land, and I brought him word again as it was in my heart. 8 Nevertheless, my brothers who went up with me made the heart of the people melt, but I wholly followed the LORD my God. 9 And Moses swore on that day, saying, 'Surely the land on which your feet have trodden shall be your inheritance, and your children's forever, because you have wholly followed the LORD my God.' 10 And now, behold, the LORD has kept me alive, as he said, these forty-five years, even since the LORD spoke this word to Moses, while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness. And now, behold, I am this day eighty-five years old. 11 I am still as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me. As my strength was then, even so is my strength now for war, both to go out and to come in. 12 Now therefore, give me this mountain of which the LORD spoke in that day, for you heard in that day how the Anakims were there, and that the cities were great and fortified. If the LORD will be with me, then I shall be able to drive them out, as the LORD said."

13 And Joshua blessed him and gave Hebron for an inheritance to Caleb the son of Jephunneh. 14 Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite to this day because he wholly followed the LORD God of Israel. 15 And the name of Hebron was formerly Kirjath-arba. (This Arba was a great man among the Anakims.) And the land had rest from war.

[#jsh015%breakable]
=== Chapter 15

[.outline.text-center]
_The borders of the lot of Judah, 1-12. Caleb's portion and conquest, 13-15. Othniel, for his valor, has Achsah, Caleb's daughter, for a wife, 16, 17. She obtains a blessing from her father, 18-20. The cities of Judah, 21-62. The Jebusites unconquered, 63._

1 And the lot for the tribe of the children of Judah according to their families was to the border of Edom, even to the wilderness of Zin southward, at the uttermost part of the south border. 2 And their south border was from the shore of the Salt Sea, from the bay that looks southward, 3 And it went out to the south side to Maaleh-acrabbim, passed along to Zin, ascended on the south side to Kadesh-barnea, passed along to Hezron, went up to Adar, and turned around to Karkaa. 4 From there it passed toward Azmon, and went out to the river of Egypt, and the limits of that border were at the sea. This shall be their south limit. 5 And the east border was the Salt Sea, even to the end of the Jordan. And their border in the north quarter was from the bay of the sea, at the uttermost part of the Jordan. 6 And the border went up to Beth-hogla, and passed along by the north of Beth-arabah. And the border went up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben. 7 And the border went up toward Debir from the valley of Achor, and so northward looking toward Gilgal, that is before the going up to Adummim, which is on the south side of the river. And the border passed toward the waters of En-shemesh, and its borders were at En-rogel. 8 And the border went up by the valley of the son of Hinnom, to the south side of the Jebusite (the same is Jerusalem). And the border went up to the top of the mountain that lies before the valley of Hinnom westward, which is at the end of the valley of Rephaim northward. 9 And the border was drawn from the top of the hill to the fountain of the water of Nephtoah, and went out to the cities of mount Ephron. And the border was drawn to Baalah, which is Kirjath-jearim. 10 And the border compassed from Baalah westward to mount Seir, passed along to the side of mount Jearim (which is Chesalon) on the north side, went down to Beth-shemesh, and passed on to Timnah. 11 And the border went out to the side of Ekron northward. And the border was drawn to Shicron, passed along to mount Baalah, and went out to Jabneel. And the terminations of the border were at the sea. 12 And the west border was to the coast of the Great Sea. This is the border of the children of Judah all around according to their families.

13 And to Caleb the son of Jephunneh he gave a part among the children of Judah, according to the commandment of the LORD to Joshua, even the city of Arba the father of Anak (which city is Hebron). 14 And Caleb drove from there the three sons of Anak: Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai, the children of Anak. 15 And he went up from there to the inhabitants of Debir. And the name of Debir was formerly Kirjath-sepher. 16 And Caleb said, "He who smites Kirjath-sepher and takes it, I will give Achsah my daughter to him for a wife." 17 And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, took it. And he gave him Achsah his daughter for a wife. 18 And it came to pass, as she came to him, that she moved him to ask of her father a field. And she got off her donkey, and Caleb said to her, "What do you want?" 19 She answered, "Give me a blessing. Since you have given me land in the south, give me also springs of water." And he gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.

20 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Judah according to their families.

21 And the uttermost cities of the tribe of the children of Judah toward the border of Edom southward were Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur, 22 Kinah, Dimonah, Adadah, 23 Kedesh, Hazor, Ithnan, 24 Ziph, Telem, Bealoth, 25 Hazor, Hadattah, Kerioth, Hezron (which is Hazor), 26 Aman, Shema, Moladah, 27 Hazar-gaddah, Heshmon, Beth-palet, 28 Hazar-shual, Beer-sheba, Bizjothjah, 29 Baalah, Iim, Azem, 30 Eltolad, Chesil, Hormah, 31 Ziglag, Madmannah, Sansannah, 32 Lebaoth, Shilhim, Ain, and Rimmon. All the cities are twenty-nine, with their villages.

33 And in the valley, Eshtaol, Zoreah, Ashnah, 34 Zanoah, En-gannim, Tappuah, Enam, 35 Jarmuth, Adullam, Socoh, Azekah, 36 Sharaim, Adithaim, Gederah, and Gederothaim; fourteen cities with their villages.

37 Zenan, Hadashah, Migdalgad, 38 Dilean, Mizpeh, Joktheel, 39 Lachish, Bozkath, Eglon, 40 Cabbon, Lahman, Kithlish, 41 Gederoth, Beth-dagon, Naamah, and Makkedah; sixteen cities with their villages.

42 Libnah, Ether, Ashan, 43 Jiphtah, Ashnah, Nezib, 44 Keilah, Achzib, and Mareshah; nine cities with their villages.

45 Ekron, with her towns and her villages; 46 From Ekron even to the sea, all that lay near Ashdod, with their villages.

47 Ashdod, with her towns and her villages; Gaza, with her towns and her villages, to the river of Egypt, and the coast of the Great Sea.

48 And in the mountains, Shamir, Jattir, Socoh, 49 Dannah, Kirjath-sannah (which is Debir), 50 Anab, Eshtemoh, Anim, 51 Goshen, Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities with their villages.

52 Arab, Dumah, Eshean, 53 Janum, Beth-tappuah, Aphekah, 54 Humtah, Kirjath-arba (which is Hebron), and Zior; nine cities with their villages.

55 Maon, Carmel, Ziph, Juttah, 56 Jezreel, Jokdeam, Zanoah, 57 Cain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities with their villages.

58 Halhul, Beth-zur, Gedor, 59 Maarath, Beth-anoth, and Eltekon; six cities with their villages.

60 Kirjath-baal (which is Kirjath-jearim) and Rabbah; two cities with their villages.

61 In the wilderness, Beth-arabah, Middin, Secacah, 62 Nibshan, the City of Salt, and En-gedi; six cities with their villages.

63 As for the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the children of Judah could not expel them. But the Jebusites dwell with the children of Judah in Jerusalem to this day.

[#jsh016%breakable]
=== Chapter 16

[.outline.text-center]
_The general borders of the sons of Joseph, 1-4. The border of the inheritance of Ephraim, 5-9. The Canaanites of Gezer not conquered, 10._

1 And the lot of the children of Joseph fell from the Jordan by Jericho, to the water of Jericho on the east, to the wilderness that goes up from Jericho throughout mount Beth-el, 2 And goes out from Beth-el to Luz, and passes along to the borders of Archi to Ataroth, 3 And goes down westward to the border of Japhleti, to the border of Beth-horon the nether, and to Gezer, and its limits are at the sea.

4 So the children of Joseph, Manasseh and Ephraim, took their inheritance. 5 And the border of the children of Ephraim according to their families was this: even the border of their inheritance on the east side was Ataroth-adar, to Beth-horon the upper, 6 And the border went out toward the sea to Michmethah on the north side, and the border went around eastward to Taanath-shiloh, and passed by it on the east to Janohah, 7 And it went down from Janohah to Ataroth, and to Naarath, and came to Jericho, and terminated at the Jordan. 8 The border went out from Tappuah westward to the Kanah River, and its limits were at the sea. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Ephraim by their families. 9 And the separate cities for the children of Ephraim were among the inheritance of the children of Manasseh, all the cities with their villages. 10 And they did not expel the Canaanites who dwelt in Gezer. But the Canaanites dwell among the Ephraimites to this day and serve under tribute.

[#jsh017%breakable]
=== Chapter 17

[.outline.text-center]
_The lot of Manasseh, 1-6. His coast, 7-11. The Canaanites not driven out, 12, 13. The children of Joseph obtain another lot, 14-18._

1 There was also a lot for the tribe of Manasseh, for he was the first-born of Joseph, namely, for Machir the first-born of Manasseh, the father of Gilead. Because he was a man of war, therefore he had Gilead and Bashan. 2 There was also a lot for the rest of the children of Manasseh by their families: for the children of Abiezer, for the children of Helek, for the children of Asriel, for the children of Shechem, for the children of Hepher, and for the children of Shemida. These were the male children of Manasseh the son of Joseph by their families.

3 But Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, had no sons, but daughters. And these are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. 4 And they came near before Eleazar the priest, and before Joshua the son of Nun, and before the princes, saying, "The LORD commanded Moses to give us an inheritance among our brothers." Therefore, according to the commandment of the LORD, he gave them an inheritance among the brothers of their father. 5 And there fell ten portions to Manasseh, besides the land of Gilead and Bashan, which were on the other side of the Jordan, 6 Because the daughters of Manasseh had an inheritance among his sons. And the rest of Manasseh's sons had the land of Gilead.

7 And the border of Manasseh was from Asher to Michmethah, that lies before Shechem, and the border went along on the right hand to the inhabitants of En-tappuah. 8 Now Manasseh had the land of Tappuah, but Tappuah on the border of Manasseh belonged to the children of Ephraim. 9 And the border descended to the Kanah River, southward of the river. These cities of Ephraim are among the cities of Manasseh. Then the border of Manasseh also was on the north side of the river, and its limits were at the sea. 10 Southward it was Ephraim's, and northward it was Manasseh's, and the sea is his border. And they met together in Asher on the north and in Issachar on the east. 11 And in Issachar and in Asher, Manasseh had Beth-shean and its towns, Ibleam and its towns, the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, the inhabitants of En-dor and its towns, the inhabitants of Tanach and its towns, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns, even three countries. 12 Yet the children of Manasseh could not expel the inhabitants of those cities. But the Canaanites would dwell in that land. 13 And it came to pass, that when the children of Israel had become strong, they subjected the Canaanites to tribute, but did not utterly expel them.

14 And the children of Joseph spoke to Joshua, saying, "Why have you given me only one lot and one portion to inherit, seeing I am a great people because the LORD has until now blessed me?" 15 And Joshua answered them, "If you are a great people, then go up to the forest and cut down for yourself there in the land of the Perizzites and of the Rephaim, since mount Ephraim is too narrow for you." 16 And the children of Joseph said, "The hill is not enough for us. And all the Canaanites who dwell in the land of the valley have chariots of iron—both those who are of Beth-shean and its towns, and those who are of the valley of Jezreel." 17 And Joshua spoke to the house of Joseph, even to Ephraim and to Manasseh, saying, "You are a great people, and have great power. You shall not have one lot only. 18 But the mountain shall be yours. Although it is a forest, you shall cut it down. And its limits shall be yours, for you shall drive out the Canaanites, though they have iron chariots and though they are strong."

[#jsh018%breakable]
=== Chapter 18

[.outline.text-center]
_The tabernacle is set up at Shiloh, 1. The remainder of the land is described and divided into seven parts, 2-9. Joshua distributes it by lot, 10. The lot and border of Benjamin, 11-20. Their cities, 21-28._

1 And the whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled at Shiloh and set up the Tabernacle of the Congregation there. And the land was subdued before them.

2 And there remained among the children of Israel seven tribes which had not yet received their inheritance. 3 And Joshua said to the children of Israel, "How long are you slack to go to possess the land which the LORD God of your fathers has given you? 4 Select from among you three men for each tribe, and I will send them, and they shall rise, go through the land, describe it according to their inheritance, and they shall come back to me. 5 And they shall divide it into seven parts. Judah shall abide in their border on the south, and the house of Joseph shall abide in their borders on the north. 6 You shall therefore describe the land in seven parts and bring the description here to me so that I may cast lots for you here before the LORD our God. 7 But the Levites have no part among you, for the priesthood of the LORD is their inheritance. And Gad, Reuben, and half the tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan on the east, which Moses the servant of the LORD gave them."

8 And the men arose and departed. And Joshua charged those who went to describe the land, saying, "Go, and walk through the land, describe it, and come back to me so that I may cast lots for you here before the LORD in Shiloh." 9 And the men went and passed through the land, described it by cities in seven parts in a book, and came back to Joshua to the host at Shiloh. 10 And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before the LORD. And there Joshua divided the land to the children of Israel according to their divisions.

11 And the lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came up according to their families. And the border of their lot came forth between the children of Judah and the children of Joseph. 12 And their border on the north side was from the Jordan. And the border went up to the side of Jericho on the north side and went up through the mountains westward. And its limits were at the wilderness of Beth-aven. 13 And the border went over from there toward Luz, to the side of Luz (which is Beth-el) southward. And the border descended to Ataroth-adar, near the hill that lies on the south side of the nether Beth-horon. 14 And the border was drawn from there and compassed the corner of the sea southward from the hill that lies before Beth-horon southward. And its limits were at Kirjath-baal (which is Kirjath-jearim), a city of the children of Judah. This was the west quarter. 15 And the south quarter was from the end of Kirjath-jearim, and the border went out on the west, and went out to the well of waters of Nephtoah. 16 And the border came down to the end of the mountain that lies before the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is in the valley of Rephaim on the north, and descended to the valley of Hinnom, to the side of Jebusi on the south, and descended to En-rogel, 17 And was drawn from the north, went forth to En-shemesh, went forth toward Geliloth, which is over against the going up of Adummim, descended to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben, 18 Passed along toward the side over against Arabah northward, and went down to Arabah. 19 And the border passed along to the side of Beth-hoglah northward. And the limits of the border were at the north bay of the Salt Sea at the south end of the Jordan. This was the south border. 20 And the Jordan was its border on the east side. This was the inheritance of the children of Benjamin, according to its borders all around, according to their families.

21 Now the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin, according to their families, were Jericho, Beth-hoglah, the valley of Keziz, 22 Beth-arabah, Zemaraim, Beth-el, 23 Avim, Parah, Ophrah, 24 Chephar-haamonai, Ophni, and Gaba; twelve cities with their villages. 25 Gibeon, Ramah, Beeroth, 26 Mizpeh, Chephirah, Mozah, 27 Rekem, Irpeel, Taralah, 28 Zelah, Eleph, Jebusi (which is Jerusalem), Gibeath, and Kirjath; fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their families.

[#jsh019%breakable]
=== Chapter 19

[.outline.text-center]
_The lot of Simeon, 1-9; of Zebulun, 10-16; of Issachar, 17-23; of Asher, 24-31; of Naphtali, 32-39; of Dan, 40-48. The children of Israel give an inheritance to Joshua, 49-51._

1 And the second lot came forth to Simeon, even for the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families. And their inheritance was within the inheritance of the children of Judah. 2 And they had in their inheritance, Beer-sheba (or Sheba), Moladah, 3 Hazar-shual, Balah, Azem, 4 Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah, 5 Ziklag, Beth-marcaboth, Hazar-susah, 6 Beth-lebaoth, and Sheruhen; thirteen cities and their villages; 7 Ain, Remmon, Ether, and Ashan; four cities and their villages; 8 And all the villages that were around these cities to Baalath-beer (Ramath of the south). This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families. 9 Out of the portion of the children of Judah was the inheritance of the children of Simeon, for the part of the children of Judah was too much for them; therefore, the children of Simeon had their inheritance within their inheritance.

10 And the third lot came up for the children of Zebulun according to their families. And the border of their inheritance was to Sarid. 11 And their border went up toward the sea and Maralah, reached to Dabbasheth, reached to the river that is before Jokneam, 12 Turned from Sarid eastward, toward the sunrise, to the border of Chisloth-tabor, then goes out to Daberath, then goes up to Japhia; 13 From there passes along on the east to Gittah-hepher, to Ittah-kazin, and goes out to Remmon-methoar to Neah; 14 And the border compasses it on the north side to Hannathon; and its limits are in the valley of Jiphthah-el; 15 And Kattath, Nahallal, Shimron, Idalah, and Beth-lehem; twelve cities with their villages. 16 This is the inheritance of the children of Zebulun according to their families, these cities with their villages.

17 And the fourth lot came out to Issachar, for the children of Issachar according to their families. 18 And their border was toward Jezreel, Chesulloth, Shunem, 19 Hapharaim, Shihon, Anaharath, 20 Rabbith, Kishion, Abez, 21 Remeth, En-gannim, En-haddah, and Beth-pazzez; 22 And the border reaches to Tabor, Shahazimah, and Beth-shemesh, and the limits of their border were at the Jordan; sixteen cities with their villages. 23 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Issachar according to their families, the cities and their villages.

24 And the fifth lot came out for the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families. 25 And their border was Helkath, Hali, Beten, Achshaph, 26 Alammelech, Amad, and Misheal, and reaches to Carmel westward, and to Shihor-libnath, 27 And turns toward the sunrise to Beth-dagon, and reaches to Zebulun, and to the valley of Jiphthah-el toward the north side of Beth-emek, and Neiel, and goes out to Cabul on the left hand, 28 And Hebron, Rehob, Hammon, and Kanah, even to great Zidon; 29 And then the border turns to Ramah, and to the strong city Tyre, and the border turns to Hosah; and its limits are at the sea by the region of Achzib; 30 Also Ummah, Aphek, and Rehob; twenty-two cities with their villages. 31 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families, these cities with their villages.

32 The sixth lot came out to the children of Naphtali, even for the children of Naphtali according to their families. 33 And their border was from Heleph, from Allon to Zaanannim, Adami, Nekeb, and Jabneel, to Lakum; and the limits thereof were at the Jordan; 34 And then the border turns westward to Aznoth-tabor, goes out from there to Hukkok, reaches to Zebulun on the south side, reaches to Asher on the west side, and to Judah upon the Jordan toward the sunrise; 35 And the fortified cities are Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Chinnereth, 36 Adamah, Ramah, Hazor, 37 Kedesh, Edrei, En-hazor, 38 Iron, Migdal-el, Horem, Beth-anath, and Beth-shemesh; nineteen cities with their villages. 39 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Naphtali according to their families, the cities and their villages.

40 And the seventh lot came out for the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families. 41 And the border of their inheritance was Zorah, Eshtaol, Ir-shemesh, 42 Shaalabbim, Ajalon, Jethlah, 43 Elon, Thimnathah, Ekron, 44 Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath, 45 Jehud, Bene-berak, Gath-rimmon, 46 Me-jarkon, and Rakkon, with the border before Japho. 47 And the border of the children of Dan, went out too little for them; therefore, the children of Dan went up to fight against Leshem, took it, smote it with the edge of the sword, possessed it, and dwelt in it, and called Leshem, Dan, after the name of Dan their father. 48 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families, these cities with their villages.

49 When they had made an end of dividing the land for inheritance by their borders, the children of Israel gave an inheritance to Joshua the son of Nun among them. 50 According to the word of the LORD they gave him the city which he asked, even Timnath-serah in the mountains of Ephraim. And he built the city and dwelt in it.

51 These are the inheritances which Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel divided for an inheritance by lot in Shiloh before the LORD, at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. So they made an end of dividing the country.

[#jsh020%breakable]
=== Chapter 20

[.outline.text-center]
_God commands, 1-6, and the children of Israel appoint the six cities of refuge, 7-9._

1 The LORD also spoke to Joshua, saying, 2 "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'Appoint for yourselves cities of refuge, of which I spoke to you by the hand of Moses, 3 So that the slayer who kills any person unintentionally and ignorantly may flee there. And they shall be your refuge from the avenger of blood. 4 And when he who flees to one of those cities stands at the entering of the gate of the city and declares his cause in the ears of the elders of that city, they shall take him into the city to them and give him a place so that he may dwell among them. 5 And if the avenger of blood pursues him, then they shall not deliver the slayer into his hand because he smote his neighbor ignorantly and had not hated him before. 6 And he shall dwell in that city until he stands before the congregation for judgment and until the death of the high-priest who shall be in those days. Then the slayer shall return and come to his own city and to his own house, to the city from where he fled.'"

7 And they appointed Kedesh in Galilee in the mountains of Naphtali, Shechem in the mountains of Ephraim, and Kirjath-arba (which is Hebron) in the mountains of Judah. 8 And on the other side of the Jordan by Jericho eastward, they assigned Bezer in the wilderness upon the plain out of the tribe of Reuben, Ramoth in Gilead out of the tribe of Gad, and Golan in Bashan out of the tribe of Manasseh. 9 These were the cities appointed for all the children of Israel and for the stranger sojourning among them, so that whoever kills any person unintentionally might flee there and not die by the hand of the avenger of blood until he stood before the congregation.

[#jsh021%breakable]
=== Chapter 21

[.outline.text-center]
_Forty-eight cities given by lot, out of the other tribes, to the Levites, 1-42. God gives the land and rest to the Israelites according to his promise, 43-45._

1 Then the heads of the fathers of the Levites came near to Eleazar the priest, to Joshua the son of Nun, and to the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel. 2 And they spoke to them at Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, "The LORD commanded by the hand of Moses to give us cities to dwell in, with their suburbs for our livestock." 3 And the children of Israel gave to the Levites out of their inheritance, at the commandment of the LORD, these cities and their suburbs. 4 And the lot came out for the families of the Kohathites. And the Levites who were the children of Aaron the priest had by lot out of the tribe of Judah, out of the tribe of Simeon, and out of the tribe of Benjamin, thirteen cities.

5 And the rest of the children of Kohath had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Ephraim, out of the tribe of Dan, and out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, ten cities.

6 And the children of Gershon had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Issachar, out of the tribe of Asher, out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.

7 The children of Merari by their families had out of the tribe of Reuben, out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.

8 And the children of Israel gave by lot to the Levites these cities with their suburbs, as the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses.

9 And they gave out of the tribe of the children of Judah, and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, these cities which are here mentioned by name, 10 Which the children of Aaron had, being of the families of the Kohathites, who were of the children of Levi, for theirs was the first lot. 11 And they gave them the city of Arba the father of Anak (which city is Hebron) in the hill-country of Judah, with its suburbs around it. 12 But the fields of the city and its villages they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for his possession.

13 Thus they gave to the children of Aaron the priest Hebron with its suburbs to be a city of refuge for the slayer, Libnah with its suburbs, 14 Jattir with its suburbs, Eshtemoa with its suburbs, 15 Holon with its suburbs, Debir with its suburbs, 16 Ain with its suburbs, Juttah with its suburbs, and Beth-shemesh with its suburbs; nine cities out of those two tribes. 17 And out of the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon with its suburbs, Geba with its suburbs, 18 Anathoth with its suburbs, and Almon with its suburbs; four cities. 19 All the cities of the children of Aaron, the priests, were thirteen cities with their suburbs.

20 And the families of the children of Kohath, the Levites who remained of the children of Kohath, even they had the cities of their lot out of the tribe of Ephraim. 21 For they gave them Shechem with its suburbs in the mountains of Ephraim to be a city of refuge for the slayer, Gezer with its suburbs, 22 Kibzaim with its suburbs, and Beth-horon with its suburbs; four cities. 23 And out of the tribe of Dan, Eltekeh with its suburbs, Gibbethon with its suburbs, 24 Ajalon with its suburbs, Gath-rimmon with its suburbs; four cities. 25 And out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Taanach with its suburbs, and Gath-rimmon with its suburbs; two cities. 26 All the cities were ten with their suburbs, for the families of the children of Kohath who remained.

27 And to the children of Gershon, of the families of the Levites, out of the other half-tribe of Manasseh they gave Golan in Bashan with its suburbs to be a city of refuge for the slayer, and Beesh-terah with its suburbs; two cities. 28 And out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishon with its suburbs, Dabareh with its suburbs, 29 Jarmuth with its suburbs, and En-gannim with its suburbs; four cities. 30 And out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal with its suburbs, Abdon with its suburbs, 31 Helkath with its suburbs, and Rehob with its suburbs; four cities. 32 And out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with its suburbs to be a city of refuge for the slayer, Hammoth-dor with its suburbs, and Kartan with its suburbs; three cities. 33 All the cities of the Gershonites, according to their families, were thirteen cities with their suburbs.

34 And to the families of the children of Merari, the rest of the Levites, out of the tribe of Zebulun, Jokneam with its suburbs, Kartah with its suburbs, 35 Dimnah with its suburbs, and Nahalal with its suburbs; four cities. 36 And out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer with its suburbs, Jahazah with its suburbs, 37 Kedemoth with its suburbs, and Mephaath with its suburbs; four cities. 38 And out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with its suburbs to be a city of refuge for the slayer, Mahanaim with its suburbs, 39 Heshbon with its suburbs, and Jazer with its suburbs; four cities in all. 40 So all the cities for the children of Merari by their families, which were remaining of the families of the Levites, were by their lot twelve cities.

41 All the cities of the Levites within the possession of the children of Israel were forty-eight cities with their suburbs. 42 These cities were each with their suburbs around them. Thus were all these cities.

43 And the LORD gave to Israel all the land which he swore to give to their fathers. And they possessed it and dwelt in it. 44 And the LORD gave them rest on all sides, according to all that he swore to their fathers. And there did not stand a man of all their enemies before them. The LORD delivered all their enemies into their hand. 45 There did not fail anything of any good thing which the LORD had spoken to the house of Israel. All came to pass.

[#jsh022%breakable]
=== Chapter 22

[.outline.text-center]
_The two and a half tribes are sent home with a blessing, 1-9. They build the altar of testimony on their journey, 10. The Israelites are offended on account of it, 11-20. They vindicate their conduct and give them good satisfaction, 21-34._

1 Then Joshua called the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, 2 And said to them, "You have kept all that Moses the servant of the LORD commanded you, and have obeyed my voice in all that I commanded you. 3 You have not left your brothers these many days to this day, but have kept the charge of the commandment of the LORD your God. 4 And now the LORD your God has given rest to your brothers, as he promised them. And now, return, and go to your tents and to the land of your possession which Moses the servant of the LORD gave you on the other side of the Jordan. 5 But take diligent heed to perform the commandment and the law which Moses the servant of the LORD charged you, to love the LORD your God, to walk in all his ways, to keep his commandments, to cleave to him, and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul." 6 So Joshua blessed them and sent them away, and they went to their tents.

7 Now to one half of the tribe of Manasseh, Moses had given possession in Bashan, but to its other half Joshua gave among their brothers on this side of the Jordan westward. And when Joshua sent them away also to their tents, he blessed them, 8 And he spoke to them, saying, "Return with great riches to your tents, and with a very large number of livestock, with silver, with gold, with brass, with iron, and with very many clothes. Divide the plunder of your enemies with your brothers." 9 And the children of Reuben, the children of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh returned and departed from the children of Israel out of Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan, to go to the country of Gilead, to the land of their possession, which they had possessed according to the word of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

10 And when they came to the borders of the Jordan that are in the land of Canaan, the children of Reuben, the children of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh built an altar there by the Jordan, a great altar to the sight. 11 And the children of Israel heard it said, "Behold, the children of Reuben, the children of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh have built an altar over against the land of Canaan, in the borders of the Jordan, at the passage of the children of Israel." 12 And when the children of Israel heard of it, the whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled at Shiloh to go up to war against them.

13 And the children of Israel sent Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest to the children of Reuben, to the children of Gad, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh into the land of Gilead, 14 And with him ten princes, of each chief house a prince throughout all the tribes of Israel, and each one was a head of the house of their fathers among the thousands of Israel. 15 And they came to the children of Reuben, to the children of Gad, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, to the land of Gilead, and they spoke with them, saying, 16 "Thus says the whole congregation of the LORD: 'What trespass is this that you have committed against the God of Israel by turning away this day from following the LORD, in that you have built yourselves an altar and have rebelled this day against the LORD? 17 Is the iniquity of Peor too little for us, from which we are not cleansed until this day, although there was a plague in the congregation of the LORD, 18 But that you must turn away this day from following the LORD? And it will be, seeing you rebel today against the LORD, that tomorrow he will be angry with the whole congregation of Israel. 19 However, if the land of your possession is unclean, then pass over to the land of the possession of the LORD, in which the LORD'S tabernacle dwells, and take possession among us. But do not rebel against the LORD, nor rebel against us, in building yourselves an altar besides the altar of the LORD our God. 20 Did Achan the son of Zerah not commit a trespass in the accursed thing and wrath fall on all the congregation of Israel? And that man did not perish alone in his iniquity.'"

21 Then the children of Reuben, the children of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh answered, and said to the heads of the thousands of Israel, 22 "The LORD God of gods, the LORD God of gods, he knows, and Israel itself shall know if it is in rebellion or in transgression against the LORD (do not save us this day). 23 If we have built us an altar to turn from following the LORD, or to offer on it burnt-offering, food-offering, or to offer peace-offerings on it, let the LORD himself require it. 24 And if we have not rather done it for fear of this thing, saying, 'In time to come your children may speak to our children, saying, "What have you to do with the LORD God of Israel? 25 For the LORD has made the Jordan a boundary between us and you, you children of Reuben and children of Gad. You have no part in the LORD." So your children shall make our children cease from fearing the LORD.'

26 "Therefore, we said, 'Let us now prepare to build ourselves an altar, not for burnt-offering or for sacrifice, 27 But it shall be a witness between us and you and our generations after us so that we may do the service of the LORD before him with our burnt-offerings, with our sacrifices, and with our peace-offerings, and that your children may not say to our children in time to come, "You have no part in the LORD."' 28 Therefore, we said that it shall be, when they say so to us or to our generations in time to come, that we may say, 'Behold the pattern of the altar of the LORD which our fathers made, not for burnt-offerings nor for sacrifices, but as a witness between us and you.' 29 Far be it from us that we should rebel against the LORD and turn this day from following the LORD to build an altar for burnt-offerings, for food-offerings, or for sacrifices, besides the altar of the LORD our God that is before his tabernacle."

30 And when Phinehas the priest, the princes of the congregation, and heads of the thousands of Israel who were with him heard the words that the children of Reuben, the children of Gad, and the children of Manasseh spoke, it pleased them. 31 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest said to the children of Reuben, to the children of Gad, and to the children of Manasseh, "This day we perceive that the LORD is among us because you have not committed this trespass against the LORD. Now you have delivered the children of Israel out of the hand of the LORD."

32 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, along with the princes, returned from the children of Reuben and from the children of Gad in the land of Gilead to the land of Canaan, to the children of Israel, and brought them word again. 33 And the thing pleased the children of Israel. And the children of Israel blessed God and did not intend to go up against them in battle to destroy the land in which the children of Reuben and Gad dwelt. 34 And the children of Reuben and the children of Gad called the altar Ed, saying, "For it shall be a witness between us that the LORD is God."

[#jsh023%breakable]
=== Chapter 23

[.outline.text-center]
_Joshua's exhortation before his death, 1, 2; by former benefits, 3, 4; by promises, 5-10; and by threatenings, 11-16._

1 And it came to pass a long time after the LORD had given rest to Israel from all their enemies on all sides, that Joshua became old and advanced in age. 2 And Joshua called for all Israel and for their elders, for their heads, for their judges, and for their officers, and said to them, "I am old and advanced in age. 3 And you have seen all that the LORD your God has done to all these nations because of you, for the LORD your God is he who has fought for you. 4 Behold, I have divided to you by lot these nations which remain to be an inheritance for your tribes, from the Jordan, with all the nations which I have cut off, even to the Great Sea westward. 5 And the LORD your God, he shall expel them from before you and drive them from your sight, and you shall possess their land, as the LORD your God has promised to you. 6 Therefore, be very courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, that you do not turn aside from it to the right hand or to the left, 7 That you do not come among these nations, these which remain among you, neither make mention of the name of their gods nor cause to swear by them, neither serve them nor bow yourselves to them. 8 But cleave to the LORD your God, as you have done to this day. 9 For the LORD has driven out from before you great and strong nations. But as for you, no man has been able to stand before you to this day. 10 One man of you shall chase a thousand, for the LORD your God, it is he who fights for you, as he has promised you. 11 Take good heed therefore to yourselves that you love the LORD your God. 12 But if you do in any way go back and cleave to the remnant of these nations, even those who remain among you, and make marriages with them and associate with them, and they with you, 13 Know for a certainty that the LORD your God will no longer drive out any of these nations from before you, but they shall be snares and traps to you, scourges in your sides, and thorns in your eyes until you perish from off this good land which the LORD your God has given you.

14 "And behold, this day I am going the way of all the earth, and you know in all your hearts and in all your souls, that not one thing has failed of all the good things which the LORD your God spoke concerning you. All have come to pass to you, and not one thing has failed of it. 15 Therefore, it shall come to pass, that as all good things have come upon you which the LORD your God promised you, so the LORD shall bring upon you all evil things until he has destroyed you from off this good land which the LORD your God has given you. 16 If you transgress the covenant of the LORD your God, which he commanded you, and have gone and served other gods and bowed yourselves to them, then the anger of the LORD shall be kindled against you, and you shall perish quickly from off the good land which he has given to you."

[#jsh024%breakable]
=== Chapter 24

[.outline.text-center]
_Joshua assembles the tribes at Shechem, 1. A brief history of God's benefits, from Terah, 2-13. He renews the covenant between them and God, 14-25. A stone the witness of the covenant, 26-28. Joshua's age, death, and burial, 29-31. Joseph's bones are buried, 32. Eleazar dies, 33._

1 And Joshua convened all the tribes of Israel to Shechem and called for the elders of Israel and for their heads, for their judges, and for their officers, and they presented themselves before God. 2 And Joshua said to all the people, "Thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'Your fathers dwelt on the other side of the flood in old time, even Terah, the father of Abraham, and the father of Nahor, and they served other gods. 3 And I took your father Abraham from the other side of the flood, led him throughout all the land of Canaan, multiplied his offspring, and gave him Isaac. 4 And I gave Jacob and Esau to Isaac. And I gave mount Seir to Esau to possess it, but Jacob and his children went down into Egypt. 5 I also sent Moses and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt, according to that which I did among them. And afterward, I brought you out. 6 And I brought your fathers out of Egypt, and you came to the sea. And the Egyptians pursued after your fathers with chariots and horsemen to the Red Sea. 7 And when they cried to the LORD, he put darkness between you and the Egyptians and brought the sea upon them and covered them. And your eyes have seen what I have done in Egypt. And you dwelt in the wilderness for a long season. 8 And I brought you into the land of the Amorites, who dwelt on the other side of the Jordan, and they fought with you. And I gave them into your hand so that you might possess their land, and I destroyed them from before you. 9 Then Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, arose and warred against Israel, and sent and called Balaam the son of Beor to curse you. 10 But I would not listen to Balaam; therefore, he blessed you still. So I delivered you out of his hand. 11 And you went over the Jordan and came to Jericho, and the men of Jericho fought against you—the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites—and I delivered them into your hand. 12 And I sent the hornet before you, which drove them out from before you, even the two kings of the Amorites, but not with your sword nor with your bow. 13 And I have given you a land for which you did not labor and cities which you did not build, and you dwell in them. You eat of the vineyards and olive-groves which you did not plant.'

14 "Now therefore, fear the LORD and serve him in sincerity and in truth. And put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt, and serve the LORD. 15 And if it seems evil to you to serve the LORD, choose this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served who were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the LORD."

16 And the people answered, and said, "Be it far from us that we should forsake the LORD to serve other gods. 17 For the LORD our God, it is he who brought us and our fathers out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage, and who did those great signs in our sight, and preserved us in all the way in which we went and among all the people through whom we passed. 18 And the LORD drove out from before us all the people, even the Amorites who dwelt in the land. Therefore, we will also serve the LORD, for he is our God."

19 And Joshua said to the people, "You cannot serve the LORD, for he is a holy God. He is a jealous God. He will not forgive your transgressions nor your sins. 20 If you forsake the LORD and serve strange gods, then he will turn and do you hurt and consume you, after he has done you good." 21 And the people said to Joshua, "No, but we will serve the LORD." 22 And Joshua said to the people, "You are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen the LORD, to serve him." And they said, "We are witnesses." 23 "Now therefore," he said, "put away the strange gods which are among you and incline your heart to the LORD God of Israel." 24 And the people said to Joshua, "The LORD our God we will serve, and his voice we will obey." 25 So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day and made for them a statute and an ordinance in Shechem. 26 And Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God and took a great stone and set it up there under an oak that was by the sanctuary of the LORD. 27 And Joshua said to all the people, "Behold, this stone shall be a witness to us, for it has heard all the words of the LORD which he spoke to us. It shall therefore be a witness to you, lest you deny your God." 28 So Joshua let the people depart, each to his inheritance.

29 And it came to pass after these things, that Joshua the son of Nun the servant of the LORD died, being one hundred and ten years old. 30 And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, which is in the mountains of Ephraim on the north side of the hill of Gaash.

31 And Israel served the LORD all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua and who had known all the works of the LORD that he had done for Israel.

32 And the bones of Joseph which the children of Israel brought out of Egypt, they buried in Shechem in a parcel of ground which Jacob bought of the sons of Hamor the father of Shechem for one hundred pieces of silver. And it became the inheritance of the children of Joseph. 33 And Eleazar the son of Aaron died, and they buried him on a hill that pertained to Phinehas his son, which was given to him on mount Ephraim.

[.text-center]
_[Tanach reading: go to xref:#judges[Judges]]_
