////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#leviticus]
== The Third Book of Moses, Called Leviticus

*Leviticus | Λευιτικόν | ויקרא*

[#lev001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_The law of burnt offerings, 1, 2; of the herd, 3-9; of the flocks, 10-14; of the birds, 14-17._

1 And the LORD called to Moses and spoke to him out of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, saying, 2 "Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, 'If any man among you brings an offering to the LORD, you shall bring your offering from the livestock, even from the herd and from the flock. 3 If his offering is a burnt-sacrifice from the herd, let him offer a male without blemish. He shall offer it at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation so that he may be accepted before the LORD. 4 And he shall put his hand upon the head of the burnt-offering, and it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him. 5 And he shall kill the bull before the LORD. And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall bring the blood and sprinkle the blood around upon the altar that is by the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 6 And he shall flay the burnt-offering and cut it into its pieces. 7 And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire upon the altar and lay the wood in order upon the fire. 8 And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall lay the parts, the head, and the fat in order upon the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar. 9 But his inwards and his legs he shall wash in water. And the priest shall burn all on the altar to be a burnt-sacrifice, an offering made by fire, a sweet savor to the LORD.

10 'And if his offering is from the flocks, namely, from the sheep or from the goats, for a burnt-sacrifice, he shall bring it a male without blemish. 11 And he shall kill it on the side of the altar northward before the LORD. And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall sprinkle his blood around upon the altar. 12 And he shall cut it into its pieces with its head and its fat, and the priest shall lay them in order on the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar, 13 But he shall wash the inwards and the legs with water. And the priest shall bring it all and burn it upon the altar. It is a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, a sweet savor to the LORD.

14 'And if the burnt sacrifice for his offering to the LORD is of birds, then he shall bring his offering of turtle-doves or of young pigeons. 15 And the priest shall bring it to the altar, wring off its head, and burn it on the altar. And its blood shall be wrung out at the side of the altar. 16 And he shall pluck away its crop with its feathers and cast it beside the altar on the east part by the place of the ashes. 17 And he shall cleave it with its wings, but shall not divide it apart. And the priest shall burn it upon the altar, upon the wood that is upon the fire. It is a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, a sweet savor to the LORD.'"

[#lev002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_The food-offering of flour with oil and incense, 1-3, either baked in the oven, 4, or on a plate, 5, 6, or in a frying-pan, 7-11. The first-fruits are not to be burnt on the altar, 12. Salt is to be used with every offering, 13. The offering of first-fruits of green heads of grain, 14-16._

1 "'And when anyone will offer a food-offering to the LORD, his offering shall be of fine flour. And he shall pour oil upon it and put frankincense upon it. 2 And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons the priests. And he shall take from it his handful of flour and oil, with all its frankincense, and the priest shall burn its memorial upon the altar to be an offering made by fire, a sweet savor to the LORD. 3 And the remnant of the food-offering shall be Aaron's and his sons'. It is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.

4 'And if you bring an oblation of a food-offering baked in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil or unleavened wafers anointed with oil. 5 And if your oblation is a food-offering baked in a pan, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil. 6 You shall part it in pieces and pour oil upon it. It is a food-offering. 7 And if your oblation is a food-offering baked in the frying-pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil. 8 And you shall bring the food-offering that is made of these things to the LORD. And when it is presented to the priest, he shall bring it to the altar. 9 And the priest shall take from the food-offering a memorial of it and shall burn it upon the altar. It is an offering made by fire, a sweet savor to the LORD. 10 And that which is left of the food-offering shall be Aaron's and his sons'. It is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.

11 'No food-offering which you bring to the LORD shall be made with leaven. For you shall burn no leaven nor any honey in any offering of the LORD made by fire. 12 As for the oblation of the first-fruits, you shall offer them to the LORD, but they shall not be burnt on the altar for a sweet savor. 13 And every oblation of your food-offering you shall season with salt, neither shall you allow the salt of the covenant of your God to be lacking from your food-offering. With all your offerings you shall offer salt.

14 'And if you offer a food-offering of your first-fruits to the LORD, you shall offer for the food-offering of your first-fruits green heads of grain dried by the fire, even grain beaten out of full heads. 15 And you shall put oil upon it and lay frankincense upon it. It is a food-offering. 16 And the priest shall burn its memorial, part of its beaten grain and part of its oil, with all its frankincense. It is an offering made by fire to the LORD.'"

[#lev003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_The peace offering of the herd, 1-5; of the flock, 6; whether a lamb, 7-11, or a goat, 12-16. A prohibition to eat fat or blood, 17._

1 "'And if his oblation is a sacrifice of peace-offering, if he offers it from the herd, whether a male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the LORD. 2 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering and kill it at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. And Aaron's sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood all around upon the altar. 3 And he shall offer from the sacrifice of the peace-offering an offering made by fire to the LORD: the fat that covers the inwards, all the fat that is upon the inwards, 4 The two kidneys and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the lobe of the liver which he shall take away with the kidneys. 5 And Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar, upon the burnt-sacrifice which is upon the wood that is on the fire. It is an offering made by fire, a sweet savor to the LORD.

6 'And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace-offering to the LORD is from the flock, male or female, he shall offer it without blemish. 7 If he offers a lamb for his offering, then he shall offer it before the LORD. 8 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering and kill it before the Tabernacle of the Congregation. And Aaron's sons shall sprinkle its blood around upon the altar. 9 And he shall offer from the sacrifice of the peace-offering an offering made by fire to the LORD: its fat, the whole rump which he shall take off close to the back-bone, the fat that covers the inwards and all the fat that is upon the inwards, 10 The two kidneys and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the lobe of the liver which he shall take away with the kidneys. 11 And the priest shall burn it upon the altar. It is the food of the offering made by fire to the LORD.

12 'And if his offering is a goat, then he shall offer it before the LORD. 13 And he shall lay his hand upon its head and kill it before the Tabernacle of the Congregation. And the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle its blood all around upon the altar. 14 And he shall offer from it his offering, even an offering made by fire to the LORD: the fat that covers the inwards and all the fat that is upon the inwards, 15 The two kidneys and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the lobe of the liver which he shall take away with the kidneys. 16 And the priest shall burn them upon the altar. It is the food of the offering made by fire for a sweet savor. All the fat is the LORD'S. 17 It shall be a perpetual statute for your generations throughout all your dwellings that you eat neither fat nor blood.'"

[#lev004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_The sin offering of ignorance, 1, 2; for the priest, 3-12; for the congregation, 13-21; for the ruler, 22-26; for any of the people, 27-35._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'If a soul sins through ignorance against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which ought not to be done and violates any of them, 3 If the priest who is anointed sins according to the sin of the people, then let him offer for his sin which he has sinned a young bull without blemish to the LORD for a sin-offering. 4 And he shall bring the bull to the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the LORD, lay his hand upon the bull's head, and kill the bull before the LORD. 5 And the priest who is anointed shall take some of the bull's blood and bring it to the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 6 And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle some of the blood seven times before the LORD, before the veil of the sanctuary. 7 And the priest shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar of sweet incense before the LORD, which is in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and shall pour all the blood of the bull at the bottom of the altar of the burnt-offering, which is at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 8 And he shall take off from it all the fat of the bull for the sin-offering, the fat that covers the inwards and all the fat that is upon the inwards, 9 The two kidneys and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the lobe of the liver which he shall take away with the kidneys, 10 As it was taken off from the bull of the sacrifice of peace-offerings. And the priest shall burn them upon the altar of the burnt-offering. 11 And the skin of the bull and all its flesh, with its head, its legs, its inwards, and its dung, 12 Even the whole bull he shall carry forth outside the camp to a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, and burn it on the wood with fire. It shall be burnt where the ashes are poured out.

13 'And if the whole congregation of Israel sins through ignorance, and the thing is hid from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done something against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which should not be done, and are guilty, 14 When the sin which they have sinned against it is known, then the congregation shall offer a young bull for the sin and bring it before the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 15 And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands upon the head of the bull before the LORD, and the bull shall be killed before the LORD. 16 And the priest who is anointed shall bring some of the bull's blood to the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 17 And the priest shall dip his finger in some of the blood and sprinkle it seven times before the LORD, even before the veil. 18 And he shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar which is before the LORD, that is in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and shall pour out all the blood at the bottom of the altar of the burnt-offering, which is at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 19 And he shall take all the fat from it and burn it upon the altar. 20 And he shall do with the bull as he did with the bull for a sin-offering. And he shall do so with this. And the priest shall make an atonement for them, and they shall be forgiven. 21 And he shall carry forth the bull outside the camp and burn it as he burned the first bull. It is a sin-offering for the congregation.

22 'When a ruler has sinned and done something through ignorance against any of the commandments of the LORD his God concerning things which should not be done, and is guilty, 23 Or if his sin, in which he has sinned, comes to his knowledge, he shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a male without blemish. 24 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the goat and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt-offering before the LORD. It is a sin-offering. 25 And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin-offering with his finger and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt-offering. And he shall pour out its blood at the bottom of the altar of burnt-offering. 26 And he shall burn all its fat upon the altar, as the fat of the sacrifice of peace-offerings. And the priest shall make an atonement for him as concerning his sin, and he shall be forgiven.

27 'And if anyone of the common people sins through ignorance, while he does something against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which ought not to be done, and is guilty, 28 Or if his sin which he has sinned comes to his knowledge, then he shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a female without blemish, for his sin which he has sinned. 29 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin-offering and slay the sin-offering in the place of the burnt-offering. 30 And the priest shall take some of its blood with his finger and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt-offering. And he shall pour out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar. 31 And he shall take away all its fat, as the fat is taken away from off the sacrifice of peace-offerings, and the priest shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savor to the LORD. And the priest shall make an atonement for him, and he shall be forgiven.

32 'And if he brings a lamb for a sin-offering, he shall bring it a female without blemish. 33 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin-offering and slay it for a sin-offering in the place where they kill the burnt-offering. 34 And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin-offering with his finger and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt-offering. And he shall pour out all its blood at the bottom of the altar. 35 And he shall take away all its fat, as the fat of the lamb is taken away from the sacrifice of the peace-offerings, and the priest shall burn them upon the altar, according to the offerings made by fire to the LORD. And the priest shall make an atonement for his sin that he has committed, and he shall be forgiven.'"

[#lev005%breakable]
=== Chapter 5

[.outline.text-center]
_He who sins in concealing his knowledge, 1; in touching an unclean thing, 2, 3; or in making an oath, 4, 5. His trespass offering, of the flock, 6; of birds, 7-10; or of flour, 11-13. The trespass offering in sacrilege, 14-16; and in sins of ignorance, 17-19._

1 "'And if a soul sins and hears the voice of swearing and is a witness, whether he has seen or known of it, if he does not report it, then he shall bear his iniquity. 2 Or if a soul touches any unclean thing, whether a carcass of an unclean beast, a carcass of unclean livestock, or the carcass of unclean creeping animals, and it is hidden from him, he also shall be unclean and guilty. 3 Or if he touches the uncleanness of man, whatever uncleanness it may be that a man shall be defiled with, and it is hid from him, when he knows of it, then he shall be guilty. 4 Or if a soul swears, pronouncing with his lips to do evil or to do good, whatever it may be that a man pronounces with an oath, and it is hid from him, when he knows of it, then he shall be guilty in one of these. 5 And it shall be, when he is guilty in one of these things, that he shall confess that he has sinned in that thing, 6 And he shall bring his trespass-offering to the LORD for his sin which he has sinned, a female from the flock, a lamb or a kid of the goats, for a sin-offering. And the priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his sin.

7 'And if he is not able to bring a lamb, then he shall bring to the LORD two turtle-doves or two young pigeons for his trespass which he has committed: one for a sin-offering and the other for a burnt-offering. 8 And he shall bring them to the priest who shall offer that which is for the sin-offering first and wring off its head from its neck, but shall not divide it apart. 9 And he shall sprinkle some of the blood of the sin-offering upon the side of the altar, and the rest of the blood shall be wrung out at the bottom of the altar. It is a sin-offering. 10 And he shall offer the second for a burnt-offering, according to the ordinance. And the priest shall make an atonement for him for his sin which he has sinned, and he shall be forgiven.

11 'But if he is not able to bring two turtle-doves or two young pigeons, then he who sinned shall bring for his offering the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin-offering. He shall put no oil upon it, neither shall he put any frankincense upon it, for it is a sin-offering. 12 Then he shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take a handful of it, even a memorial of it, and burn it on the altar, according to the offerings made by fire to the LORD. It is a sin-offering. 13 And the priest shall make an atonement for him as concerning his sin that he has sinned in one of these, and he shall be forgiven. And the remnant shall be the priest's as a food-offering.'"

14 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 15 "If a soul commits a trespass and sins through ignorance in the holy things of the LORD, then he shall bring for his trespass to the LORD a ram without blemish out of the flocks, with your estimation in shekels of silver after the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass-offering. 16 And he shall make amends for the harm that he has done in the holy thing, and shall add to it the fifth part and give it to the priest. And the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of the trespass-offering, and he shall be forgiven.

17 "And if a soul sins and commits any of these things which are forbidden to be done by the commandments of the LORD, though he did not know it, yet he is guilty. He shall bear his iniquity. 18 And he shall bring a ram without blemish out of the flock, with your estimation, for a trespass-offering to the priest. And the priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his ignorance wherein he erred and did not know it, and he shall be forgiven. 19 It is a trespass-offering. He has certainly trespassed against the LORD."

[#lev006%breakable]
=== Chapter 6

[.outline.text-center]
_The trespass offering for sins done wittingly, 1-7. The law of the burnt offering, 8-13; and of the food-offering, 14-18. The offering at the consecration of a priest, 19-23. The law of the sin offering, 24-30._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "If a soul sins and commits a trespass against the LORD and lies to his neighbor in that which was delivered to him to keep, in a pledge, or in a thing taken away by violence, has deceived his neighbor, 3 Or has found that which was lost and lies concerning it, swearing falsely—in any of all these that a man does, sinning therein— 4 Then it shall be, because he has sinned and is guilty, that he shall restore that which he took by force, the thing which he obtained by deceit, that which was delivered to him to keep, the lost thing which he found, 5 Or all that about which he has sworn falsely. He shall even restore it in the principal and shall add to it the fifth part more and give it to him to whom it belongs in the day of his trespass-offering. 6 And he shall bring to the priest his trespass-offering to the LORD, a ram without blemish out of the flock, with your estimation, for a trespass-offering. 7 And the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD, and he shall be forgiven for anything of all that he has done in trespassing therein."

8 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 9 "Command Aaron and his sons, saying, 'This is the law of the burnt-offering. It is the burnt-offering because of the burning upon the altar all night until the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be burning in it. 10 And the priest shall put on his linen garment and put his linen breeches on his body. And he shall take up the ashes which the fire has consumed with the burnt-offering on the altar and put them beside the altar. 11 And he shall take off his garments and put on other garments and carry forth the ashes outside the camp to a clean place. 12 And the fire upon the altar shall be burning on it. It shall not be extinguished. And the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and lay the burnt-offering in order upon it and burn on it the fat of the peace-offerings. 13 The fire shall continually be burning upon the altar. It shall never go out.

14 'And this is the law of the food-offering. The sons of Aaron shall offer it before the LORD, before the altar. 15 And he shall take from it his handful of the flour of the food-offering and of the oil thereof, and all the frankincense which is upon the food-offering, and shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savor, even its memorial, to the LORD. 16 And its remainder Aaron and his sons shall eat. With unleavened bread it shall be eaten in the holy place. In the court of the Tabernacle of the Congregation they shall eat it. 17 It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it to them for their portion of my offerings made by fire. It is most holy, as is the sin-offering and as the trespass-offering. 18 All the males among the children of Aaron may eat it. It shall be a statute forever in your generations concerning the offerings of the LORD made by fire. Everyone who touches them shall be holy.'"

19 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 20 "This is the offering of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer to the LORD in the day when he is anointed: the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a perpetual food-offering, half of it in the morning and half of it at night. 21 In a pan it shall be made with oil. And when it is baked, you shall bring it in, and the baked pieces of the food-offering you shall offer for a sweet savor to the LORD. 22 And the priest from among his sons who is anointed in his stead shall offer it. It is a statute forever to the LORD. It shall be wholly burnt. 23 For every food-offering for the priest shall be wholly burnt. It shall not be eaten."

24 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 25 "Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, 'This is the law of the sin-offering. In the place where the burnt-offering is killed, the sin-offering shall be killed before the LORD. It is most holy. 26 The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it. In the holy place it shall be eaten, in the court of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 27 Whatever touches its flesh shall be holy. And when there is sprinkled some of its blood upon any garment, you shall wash that on which it was sprinkled in the holy place. 28 But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken. And if it is boiled in a brazen pot, it shall be both scoured and rinsed in water. 29 All the males among the priests may eat it. It is most holy. 30 And no sin-offering, from which any of the blood is brought into the Tabernacle of the Congregation to make reconciliation in the holy place, shall be eaten. It shall be burnt in the fire.'"

[#lev007%breakable]
=== Chapter 7

[.outline.text-center]
_The law of the trespass offering, 1-10; and of the peace offering, 11; whether it be for a thanksgiving, 12-15; or a vow, or a voluntary offering, 16-21. The fat and the blood are forbidden, 22-27. The priests' portion in the peace offerings, 28-34. The whole summed up, 35-38._

1 "'Likewise, this is the law of the trespass-offering. It is most holy. 2 In the place where they kill the burnt-offering, they shall kill the trespass-offering, and its blood he shall sprinkle around upon the altar. 3 And he shall offer from it all its fat: the rump, the fat that covers the inwards, 4 The two kidneys and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the lobe of the liver which he shall take away with the kidneys. 5 And the priest shall burn them upon the altar for an offering made by fire to the LORD. It is a trespass-offering. 6 Every male among the priests may eat it. It shall be eaten in the holy place. It is most holy. 7 As the sin-offering is, so is the trespass-offering. There is one law for them. The priest who makes atonement with it shall have it. 8 And the priest who offers any man's burnt-offering, even the priest shall have to himself the skin of the burnt-offering which he has offered. 9 And all the food-offering that is baked in the oven and all that is dressed in the frying-pan and on the griddle shall be the priest's who offers it. 10 And every food-offering mingled with oil, and dry, all the sons of Aaron shall have, one as much as another.

11 'And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace-offerings which he shall offer to the LORD. 12 If he offers it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil, unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and cakes mingled with oil of fine flour, fried. 13 Besides the cakes, he shall offer for his offering leavened bread with the sacrifice of thanksgiving of his peace-offerings. 14 And from it he shall offer one out of the whole oblation for a heave-offering to the LORD, and it shall be the priest's who sprinkles the blood of the peace-offerings.

15 'And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace-offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten the same day that it is offered. He shall not leave any of it until the morning. 16 But if the sacrifice of his offering is a vow or a voluntary offering, it shall be eaten the same day that he offers his sacrifice, and on the next day also its remainder shall be eaten. 17 But the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burnt with fire. 18 And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace-offerings is eaten at all on the third day, it shall not be accepted, neither shall it be imputed to him who offers it. It shall be an abomination. And the soul who eats it shall bear his iniquity.

19 'And the flesh that touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten. It shall be burnt with fire. And as for the flesh, all who are clean shall eat it. 20 But the soul who eats the flesh of the sacrifice of peace-offerings that pertain to the LORD, having his uncleanness upon him, even that soul shall be cut off from his people. 21 Moreover, the soul who touches any unclean thing, whether the uncleanness of man, any unclean beast, or any abominable unclean thing, and eats the flesh of the sacrifice of peace-offerings which pertain to the LORD, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.'"

22 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 23 "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'You shall eat no manner of fat from an ox, a sheep, or a goat. 24 And the fat of the beast that dies of itself and the fat of that which is torn by beasts may be used for any other purpose, but you shall in no way eat it. 25 For whoever eats the fat of the beast, of which men offer an offering made by fire to the LORD, even the soul who eats it shall be cut off from his people. 26 Moreover, you shall eat no manner of blood, whether of bird or beast, in any of your dwellings. 27 Whatever soul it may be who eats any manner of blood, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.'"

28 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 29 "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'He who offers the sacrifice of his peace-offerings to the LORD shall bring his oblation to the LORD from the sacrifice of his peace-offerings. 30 His own hands shall bring the offerings of the LORD made by fire. The fat with the breast, those he shall bring so that the breast may be waved for a wave-offering before the LORD. 31 And the priest shall burn the fat upon the altar, but the breast shall be Aaron's and his sons'. 32 And the right shoulder you shall give to the priest for a heave-offering from the sacrifices of your peace-offerings. 33 He among the sons of Aaron who offers the blood of the peace-offerings and the fat shall have the right shoulder for his part. 34 For the wave-breast and the heave-shoulder I have taken from the children of Israel out of the sacrifices of their peace-offerings, and have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons by a statute forever from among the children of Israel.'"

35 This is the portion of the anointing of Aaron and of the anointing of his sons out of the offerings of the LORD made by fire, in the day when he presented them to minister to the LORD in the priest's office, 36 Which the LORD commanded to be given to them by the children of Israel in the day that he anointed them by a statute forever throughout their generations.

37 This is the law of the burnt-offering, of the food-offering, of the sin-offering, of the trespass-offering, of the consecrations, and of the sacrifice of the peace-offerings, 38 Which the LORD commanded Moses on mount Sinai in the day that he commanded the children of Israel to offer their oblations to the LORD in the wilderness of Sinai.

[#lev008%breakable]
=== Chapter 8

[.outline.text-center]
_Moses consecrates Aaron and his sons, 1-13. Their sin offering, 14-17. Their burnt offering, 18-21. The ram of consecration, 22-30. The place and time of their consecration, 31-36._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Take Aaron and his sons with him, along with the garments, the anointing oil, a bull for the sin-offering, two rams, and a basket of unleavened bread, 3 And assemble all the congregation at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation." 4 And Moses did as the LORD commanded him, and the assembly was gathered at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 5 And Moses said to the congregation, "This is the thing which the LORD commanded to be done."

6 And Moses brought Aaron and his sons and washed them with water. 7 And he put upon him the coat, girded him with the girdle, clothed him with the robe, and put the ephod upon him. And he girded him with the skillfully woven girdle of the ephod and bound it to him with it. 8 And he put the breast-plate upon him. He also put in the breast-plate the Urim and the Thummim. 9 And he put the miter upon his head. Also upon the miter, even upon his front, he put the golden plate, the holy crown, as the LORD commanded Moses.

10 And Moses took the anointing oil and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it and sanctified them. 11 And he sprinkled part of it upon the altar seven times and anointed the altar and all its vessels, both the basin and its foot, to sanctify them. 12 And he poured some of the anointing oil upon Aaron's head and anointed him to sanctify him. 13 And Moses brought Aaron's sons and put coats upon them, girded them with girdles, and put caps upon them, as the LORD commanded Moses.

14 And he brought the bull for the sin-offering. And Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the bull for the sin-offering. 15 And he slew it, and Moses took the blood and put it upon the horns of the altar all around with his finger and purified the altar. And he poured the blood at the bottom of the altar and sanctified it to make reconciliation upon it. 16 And he took all the fat that was upon the inwards, the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys and their fat, and Moses burned it upon the altar. 17 But the bull and its hide, its flesh, and its dung, he burnt with fire outside the camp, as the LORD commanded Moses.

18 And he brought the ram for the burnt-offering. And Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram. 19 And Moses killed it and sprinkled the blood all around upon the altar. 20 And Moses cut the ram into pieces and burnt the head, the pieces, and the fat, 21 And he washed the inwards and the legs in water. And then Moses burnt the whole ram upon the altar. It was a burnt-sacrifice for a sweet savor and an offering made by fire to the LORD, as the LORD commanded Moses.

22 And he brought the other ram, the ram of consecration. And Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram. 23 And Moses slew it and took some of its blood and put it upon the tip of Aaron's right ear, upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot. 24 And he brought Aaron's sons, and Moses put some of the blood upon the tip of their right ear, upon the thumbs of their right hands, and upon the great toes of their right feet. And Moses sprinkled the blood all around upon the altar. 25 And he took the fat, the rump, all the fat that was upon the inwards, the lobe of the liver, the two kidneys and their fat, and the right shoulder. 26 And out of the basket of unleavened bread that was before the LORD, he took one unleavened cake, a cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and put them on the fat and upon the right shoulder. 27 And he put all upon Aaron's hands and upon his sons' hands and waved them for a wave-offering before the LORD. 28 And Moses took them from off their hands and burnt them on the altar upon the burnt-offering. They were consecrations for a sweet savor. It is an offering made by fire to the LORD. 29 And Moses took the breast and waved it for a wave-offering before the LORD. It was Moses's part of the ram of consecration, as the LORD commanded Moses.

30 And Moses took some of the anointing oil and some of the blood which was upon the altar and sprinkled it upon Aaron, upon his garments, upon his sons, and upon his sons' garments with him, and sanctified Aaron, his garments, his sons, and his sons' garments with him.

31 And Moses said to Aaron and to his sons, "Boil the flesh at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation and eat it there with the bread that is in the basket of consecrations, as I commanded, saying, 'Aaron and his sons shall eat it.' 32 And that which remains of the flesh and of the bread you shall burn with fire. 33 And you shall not go out of the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation for seven days, until the days of your consecration are at an end. For seven days he shall consecrate you. 34 As he has done this day, so the LORD has commanded to do, to make an atonement for you. 35 Therefore, you shall abide at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation day and night for seven days and keep the charge of the LORD so that you do not die, for so I am commanded." 36 So Aaron and his sons did all things which the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses.

[#lev009%breakable]
=== Chapter 9

[.outline.text-center]
_The first offerings of Aaron, for himself and the people, 1-7. The sin offering, 8-11, and the burnt offering for himself, 12-14. The offerings for the people, 16-22. Moses and Aaron bless the people, 23. Fire comes from the Lord upon the altar, 24._

1 And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons and the elders of Israel. 2 And he said to Aaron, "Take a young calf for a sin-offering and a ram for a burnt-offering, without blemish, and offer them before the LORD. 3 And to the children of Israel you shall speak, saying, 'Take a kid of the goats for a sin-offering and a calf and a lamb, both of the first year, without blemish, for a burnt-offering, 4 And also a bull and a ram for peace-offerings, to sacrifice before the LORD, and a food-offering mingled with oil, for today the LORD will appear to you.'" 5 And they brought that which Moses commanded before the Tabernacle of the Congregation. And all the congregation drew near and stood before the LORD. 6 And Moses said, "This is the thing which the LORD commanded that you should do so that the glory of the LORD appears to you." 7 And Moses said to Aaron, "Go to the altar and offer your sin-offering and your burnt-offering and make an atonement for yourself and for the people. And offer the offering of the people and make an atonement for them, as the LORD commanded."

8 Aaron therefore went to the altar and slew the calf of the sin-offering, which was for himself. 9 And the sons of Aaron brought the blood to him. And he dipped his finger in the blood and put it upon the horns of the altar. And he poured out the blood at the bottom of the altar. 10 But the fat, the kidneys, and the lobe of the liver of the sin-offering, he burnt upon the altar, as the LORD commanded Moses. 11 And the flesh and the hide he burnt with fire outside the camp.

12 And he slew the burnt-offering. And Aaron's sons presented to him the blood, which he sprinkled around upon the altar. 13 And they presented the burnt-offering to him, with its pieces and the head, and he burnt them upon the altar. 14 And he washed the inwards and the legs and burnt them upon the burnt-offering on the altar.

15 And he brought the people's offering, and took the goat, which was the sin-offering for the people, and slew it and offered it for sin, as the first. 16 And he brought the burnt-offering and offered it according to the manner. 17 And he brought the food-offering, took a handful of it, and burnt it upon the altar beside the burnt-sacrifice of the morning.

18 He also slew the bull and the ram for a sacrifice of peace-offerings, which was for the people. And Aaron's sons presented to him the blood, which he sprinkled around upon the altar, 19 And the fat of the bull and of the ram, the rump, and that which covers the inwards, the kidneys, and the lobe of the liver. 20 And they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon the altar. 21 And the breasts and the right shoulder Aaron waved for a wave-offering before the LORD, as Moses commanded.

22 And Aaron lifted up his hand toward the people and blessed them, and he came down from offering the sin-offering, the burnt-offering, and peace-offerings. 23 And Moses and Aaron went into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and then came out and blessed the people. And the glory of the LORD appeared to all the people. 24 And a fire came out from before the LORD and consumed upon the altar the burnt-offering and the fat, which when all the people saw, they shouted and fell on their faces.

[#lev010%breakable]
=== Chapter 10

[.outline.text-center]
_Nadab and Abihu are burnt by fire for offering strange fire, 1-5. Aaron and his sons are forbidden to mourn for them, 6, 7. The priests are forbidden wine when they are to go into the tabernacle, 8-11. The law of eating the holy things, 12-15. Aaron's excuse for transgressing thereof, 16-20._

1 And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer, put fire in it, put incense on it, and offered strange fire before the LORD, which he did not command them. 2 And fire went out from the LORD and devoured them, and they died before the LORD.

3 Then Moses said to Aaron, "This is what the LORD spoke, saying, 'I will be sanctified in those who come near me, and before all the people I will be glorified.'" And Aaron held his peace.

4 And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, "Come near, carry your brothers from before the sanctuary out of the camp." 5 So they went near and carried them in their coats out of the camp, as Moses had said. 6 And Moses said to Aaron and to Eleazar and Ithamar his sons, "Do not uncover your heads, neither rend your clothes, lest you die, and lest wrath come upon all the people. But let your brothers, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning which the LORD has kindled. 7 And you shall not go out from the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, lest you die, for the anointing oil of the LORD is upon you." And they did according to the word of Moses.

8 And the LORD spoke to Aaron, saying, 9 "Do not drink wine nor strong drink—you, nor your sons with you—when you go into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, lest you die. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations 10 So that you may make a difference between holy and unholy and between unclean and clean, 11 And that you may teach the children of Israel all the statutes which the LORD has spoken to them by the hand of Moses."

12 And Moses spoke to Aaron and to Eleazar and Ithamar, his sons who were left, "Take the food-offering that remains of the offerings of the LORD made by fire and eat it without leaven beside the altar, for it is most holy. 13 And you shall eat it in the holy place because it is your due and your sons' due of the sacrifices of the LORD made by fire, for so I am commanded. 14 And the wave-breast and heave-shoulder you shall eat in a clean place—you, your sons, and your daughters with you—for they are your due and your sons' due, which are given out of the sacrifices of peace-offerings of the children of Israel. 15 The heave-shoulder and the wave-breast they shall bring, with the offerings made by fire of the fat, to wave it for a wave-offering before the LORD, and it shall be yours and your sons' with you by a statute forever, as the LORD has commanded."

16 And Moses diligently sought the goat of the sin-offering, and behold, it was burnt. And he was angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron who were left alive, saying, 17 "Why have you not eaten the sin-offering in the holy place? For it is most holy, and God has given it to you to bear the iniquity of the congregation to make atonement for them before the LORD. 18 Behold, its blood was not brought within the holy place. You should indeed have eaten it in the holy place, as I commanded." 19 And Aaron said to Moses, "Behold, this day they have offered their sin-offering and their burnt-offering before the LORD, and such things have befallen me. And if I had eaten the sin-offering today, would it have been accepted in the sight of the LORD?" 20 And when Moses heard that, he was content.

[#lev011%breakable]
=== Chapter 11

[.outline.text-center]
_What beasts may, 1-3; and what may not be eaten, 4-8. What fish, 9-12. What birds and flying insects, 13-23. The creeping things which are unclean, 29-47._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying to them, 2 "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'These are the beasts which you may eat among all the beasts that are on the earth. 3 Whatever parts the hoof, is cloven-footed, and chews the cud among the beasts, that you shall eat. 4 Nevertheless, these you shall not eat of those that chew the cud or of those that divide the hoof: the camel, because he chews the cud, but does not divide the hoof, he is unclean to you; 5 The coney, because he chews the cud, but does not divide the hoof, he is unclean to you; 6 The hare, because he chews the cud, but does not divide the hoof, he is unclean to you; 7 And the swine, though he divides the hoof and is cloven-footed, yet he does not chew the cud, he is unclean to you. 8 Their flesh you shall not eat and their carcass you shall not touch. They are unclean to you.

9 'These you shall eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, them you shall eat. 10 And all that do not have fins or scales in the seas and in the rivers, of all that move in the waters, and of any living animal which is in the waters, they shall be an abomination to you. 11 They shall even be an abomination to you. You shall not eat their flesh, but you shall consider their carcasses as an abomination. 12 Whatever has no fins or scales in the waters, that shall be an abomination to you.

13 'And these you shall consider as an abomination among the birds, and they shall not be eaten, for they are an abomination: the eagle, the vulture, the osprey, 14 The falcon, the kite after its kind, 15 Every raven after its kind, 16 The owl, the night-hawk, the gull, the hawk after its kind, 17 The little owl, the cormorant, the great owl, 18 The swan, the pelican, the vulture, 19 The stork, the heron after its kind, the lapwing, and the bat.

20 'All winged things that creep, going upon all four, shall be an abomination to you. 21 Yet these you may eat of every flying creeping animal that goes upon all four, which have jointed legs above their feet to leap with upon the earth, 22 Even these of them you may eat: the swarming-locust after its kind, the consuming-locust after its kind, the cricket after its kind, and the locust after its kind. 23 But all other flying creeping animals which have four feet shall be an abomination to you.

24 'And for these you shall be unclean. Whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening. 25 And whoever bears anything of their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. 26 The carcasses of every beast which divides the hoof and is not cloven-footed, nor chews the cud, are unclean to you. Everyone who touches them shall be unclean. 27 And whatever goes upon its paws, among all manner of beasts that go on all four, those are unclean to you. Whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening. 28 And he who bears their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. They are unclean to you.

29 'These also shall be unclean to you among the creeping animals that creep upon the earth: the weasel, the mouse, the great lizard after its kind, 30 The ferret, the chameleon, the lizard, the snail, and the mole. 31 These are unclean to you among all that creep. Whoever touches them when they are dead shall be unclean until the evening. 32 And upon whatever any of them falls when they are dead, it shall be unclean, whether it is any vessel of wood, clothing, skin, or sack, whatever vessel it is, in which any work is done, it must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the evening. Then it shall be cleansed. 33 And every earthen vessel into which any of them falls, whatever is in it shall be unclean and you shall break it. 34 Of all food which may be eaten, that on which such water comes shall be unclean. And all drink that may be drank in every such vessel shall be unclean. 35 And everything on which any part of their carcass falls shall be unclean. Whether an oven or ranges for pots, they shall be broken down, for they are unclean and shall be unclean to you. 36 Nevertheless, a fountain or pit in which there is plenty of water shall be clean, but that which touches their carcass shall be unclean. 37 And if any part of their carcass shall fall upon any sowing-seed which is to be sown, it shall be clean. 38 But if any water is put upon the seed, and any part of their carcass falls on it, it shall be unclean to you.

39 'And if any beast of which you may eat dies, he who touches its carcass shall be unclean until the evening. 40 And he who eats from its carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. He also who bears its carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening.

41 'And every creeping animal that creeps upon the earth shall be an abomination. It shall not be eaten. 42 Whatever goes upon the belly, whatever goes upon all four, or whatever has more feet among all creeping animals that creep upon the earth, them you shall not eat, for they are an abomination. 43 You shall not make your selves abominable with any creeping animal that creeps, neither shall you make yourselves unclean with them and become defiled by them. [[lev011-044]]44 For I am the LORD your God. You shall therefore sanctify yourselves, and you shall be holy, for I am holy. You shall not defile yourselves with any manner of creeping animal that creeps upon the earth. [[lev011-045]]45 For I am the LORD who brings you out of the land of Egypt to be your God. You shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.'"

46 This is the law of the beasts, of the bird, of every living creature that moves in the waters, and of every creature that creeps upon the earth, 47 To make a difference between the unclean and the clean and between the beast that may be eaten and the beast that may not be eaten.

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.44]*: Quoted in xref:#fpe001-016[1st Peter 1:16]. *[v.45]*: Reference, xref:#fpe001-016[1st Peter 1:16].

[#lev012%breakable]
=== Chapter 12

[.outline.text-center]
_The purification of a woman after childbirth, 1-5. Her offerings for her purifying, 6-8._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'If a woman conceives and gives birth to a male child, then she shall be unclean for seven days. According to the days of the separation for her infirmity she shall be unclean. 3 And on the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised. 4 And she shall then continue in the blood of her purifying for thirty-three days. She shall not touch any hallowed thing or come into the sanctuary until the days of her purifying are fulfilled. 5 But if she bears a female child, then she shall be unclean for two weeks, as in her separation. And she shall continue in the blood of her purifying for sixty-six days.

6 'And when the days of her purifying are fulfilled for a son or for a daughter, she shall bring to the priest at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation a lamb of the first year for a burnt-offering and a young pigeon or a turtle-dove for a sin-offering. 7 And he shall offer it before the LORD and make an atonement for her, and she shall be cleansed from the issue of her blood. This is the law for her who has borne a male or a female. [[lev012-008]]8 And if she is not able to bring a lamb, then she shall bring two turtle-doves or two young pigeons, one for the burnt-offering and the other for a sin-offering. And the priest shall make an atonement for her, and she shall be clean.'"

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.8]*: Quoted in xref:#luk002-024[Luke 2:24].

[#lev013%breakable]
=== Chapter 13

[.outline.text-center]
_The laws and tokens whereby the priest is to be guided in discerning the leprosy, 1-59._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, 2 "When a man has in the skin of his flesh a rising, a scab, or bright spot, and it is in the skin of his flesh like the plague of leprosy, then he shall be brought to Aaron the priest or to one of his sons the priests. 3 And the priest shall look at the plague in the skin of the flesh. And when the hair in the plague is turned white and the plague appears to be deeper than the skin of his flesh, it is a plague of leprosy. And the priest shall look at him and pronounce him unclean. 4 If the bright spot is white in the skin of his flesh and does not appear to be deeper than the skin, and its hair not turned white, then the priest shall shut him up who has the plague seven days. 5 And the priest shall look at him on the seventh day, and behold, if the plague in his sight is at a stay and the plague does not spread in the skin, then the priest shall shut him up seven more days. 6 And the priest shall look at him again on the seventh day, and behold, if the plague is somewhat dark and the plague does not spread in the skin, the priest shall pronounce him clean. It is but a scab. And he shall wash his clothes and be clean.

7 "But if the scab spreads much in the skin after he has been seen by the priest for his cleansing, he shall be seen by the priest again. 8 And if the priest sees, and behold, the scab spreads in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a leprosy.

9 "When the plague of leprosy is in a man, then he shall be brought to the priest. 10 And the priest shall see him, and behold, if the rising is white in the skin and it has turned the hair white and there is raw flesh in the rising, 11 It is an old leprosy in the skin of his flesh, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean and shall not shut him up, for he is unclean. 12 And if a leprosy breaks out in the skin and the leprosy covers all the skin of him who has the plague from his head even to his foot, wherever the priest looks, 13 Then the priest shall consider, and behold, if the leprosy has covered all his flesh, he shall pronounce him clean who has the plague. It is all turned white. He is clean. 14 But when raw flesh appears in him, he shall be unclean. 15 And the priest shall see the raw flesh and pronounce him to be unclean, for the raw flesh is unclean. It is a leprosy. 16 Or if the raw flesh turns again and is changed into white, he shall come to the priest, 17 And the priest shall see him, and behold, if the plague is turned into white, then the priest shall pronounce him clean who has the plague. He is clean.

18 "The flesh also, in which there was a boil, even in its skin, and is healed, 19 And in the place of the boil there is a white rising or a bright spot, white and somewhat reddish, and it is shown to the priest, 20 And if when the priest sees it, behold, it appears lower than the skin and its hair is turned white, the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a plague of leprosy broken out of the boil. 21 But if the priest looks at it, and behold, there are no white hairs in it and if it is not lower than the skin, but somewhat dark, then the priest shall shut him up seven days. 22 And if it has spread much in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a plague. 23 But if the bright spot stays in its place and does not spread, it is a burning boil, and the priest shall pronounce him clean.

24 "Or if there is any flesh in the skin of which there is a hot burning, and the live flesh that burns has a white bright spot, somewhat reddish or white, 25 Then the priest shall look upon it, and behold, if the hair in the bright spot is turned white and it appears deeper than the skin, it is a leprosy broken out of the burning; therefore, the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is the plague of leprosy. 26 But if the priest looks at it, and behold, there is no white hair in the bright spot and it is no lower than the other skin, but is somewhat dark, then the priest shall shut him up seven days. 27 And the priest shall look upon him on the seventh day. And if it is spread much in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is the plague of leprosy. 28 And if the bright spot stays in its place and does not spread in the skin, but is somewhat dark, it is a rising of the burning, and the priest shall pronounce him clean, for it is an inflammation of the burning.

29 "If a man or woman has a plague upon the head or the beard, 30 Then the priest shall see the plague, and behold, if it appears deeper than the skin and there is in it a yellow thin hair, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is an itch, even a leprosy upon the head or beard. 31 And if the priest looks at the plague of the itching, and behold, it does not appear deeper than the skin and no black hair in it, then the priest shall shut him up who has the plague of the itching seven days. 32 And on the seventh day the priest shall look at the plague, and behold, if the itch does not spread and there is in it no yellow hair and the itch does not appear deeper than the skin, 33 He shall be shaved, but the itch he shall not shave, and the priest shall shut him up who has the itch seven more days. 34 And on the seventh day the priest shall look at the itch, and behold, if the itch has not spread in the skin and does not appear deeper than the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean. And he shall wash his clothes and be clean. 35 But if the itch spreads much in the skin after his cleansing, 36 Then the priest shall look at him, and behold, if the itch has spread in the skin, the priest shall not seek for yellow hair. He is unclean. 37 But if the itch appears to be at a stay and there is black hair grown in it, the itch is healed and he is clean. And the priest shall pronounce him clean.

38 "If also a man or a woman has in the skin of their flesh bright spots, even white bright spots, 39 Then the priest shall look, and behold, if the bright spots in the skin of their flesh are darkish white, it is a freckled spot that grows in the skin. He is clean.

40 "And the man whose hair has fallen off his head, he is bald. He is clean. 41 And he who has his hair fallen off from the part of his head toward his face, he is forehead-bald. He is clean. 42 And if there is in the bald head or bald forehead a white reddish sore, it is a leprosy sprung up on his bald head, or his bald forehead. 43 Then the priest shall look upon it, and behold, if the rising of the sore is white reddish on his bald head, or on his bald forehead, as the leprosy appears in the skin of the flesh, 44 He is a leprous man. He is unclean. The priest shall pronounce him utterly unclean. His plague is in his head.

45 "And the leper in whom the plague is, his clothes shall be rent and his head bare, and he shall put a covering upon his upper lip and shall cry, 'Unclean, unclean.' 46 All the days in which the plague is in him he shall be defiled. He is unclean. He shall dwell alone. His dwelling shall be outside the camp.

47 "Also the garment that the plague of leprosy is in, whether a woolen garment or a linen garment, 48 Whether in the warp or woof of linen or of woolen, whether in a skin or in anything made of skin, 49 And if the plague is greenish or reddish in the garment or in the skin, either in the warp or in the woof, or in anything of skin, it is a plague of leprosy and shall be shown to the priest. 50 And the priest shall look upon the plague and shut up that which has the plague seven days. 51 And he shall look at the plague on the seventh day. If the plague has spread in the garment, either in the warp or in the woof, or in a skin or in any work that is made of skin, the plague is a fretting leprosy, it is unclean. 52 He shall therefore burn that garment, whether warp or woof in woolen or in linen, or anything of skin, in which the plague is, for it is a fretting leprosy. It shall be burnt in the fire.

53 "And if the priest looks, and behold, the plague has not spread in the garment, either in the warp or in the woof, or in anything of skin, 54 Then the priest shall command that they wash the thing in which the plague is and he shall shut it up seven more days. 55 And the priest shall look at the plague after it is washed, and behold, if the plague has not changed its color, even though the plague has not spread, it is unclean. You shall burn it in the fire. It is a fret, whether it is bare inside or outside.

56 "And if the priest looks, and behold, the plague is somewhat dark after its washing, then he shall rend it out of the garment, out of the skin, out of the warp, or out of the woof. 57 And if it appears again in the garment, either in the warp or in the woof, or in anything of skin, it is a spreading plague. You shall burn that in which the plague is with fire. 58 And the garment, either warp or woof, or whatever thing of skin it is, which you shall wash, if the plague has departed from them, then it shall be washed a second time and shall be clean."

59 This is the law of the plague of leprosy in a garment of woolen or linen, either in the warp or woof, or anything of skins, to pronounce it clean or to pronounce it unclean.

[#lev014%breakable]
=== Chapter 14

[.outline.text-center]
_The rites and sacrifices in cleansing the leper, 1-32. The signs of leprosy in a house, 33-47. The cleansing of that house, 48-57._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "This shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing. He shall be brought to the priest. 3 And the priest shall go forth out of the camp and the priest shall look, and behold, if the plague of leprosy is healed in the leper, 4 Then the priest shall command to take for him who is to be cleansed two birds alive and clean, cedar-wood, scarlet, and hyssop. 5 And the priest shall command that one of the birds be killed in an earthen vessel over running water. 6 As for the living bird, he shall take it, the cedar-wood, the scarlet, and the hyssop and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water. 7 And he shall sprinkle upon him who is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times and shall pronounce him clean, and shall release the living bird into the open field. 8 And he who is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes, shave off all his hair, and wash himself in water so that he may be clean. And after that he shall come into the camp and shall dwell outside his tent seven days. 9 But it shall be on the seventh day, that he shall shave all his hair off his head, his beard, and his eye-brows, even all his hair he shall shave off. And he shall wash his clothes and also he shall wash his flesh in water and he shall be clean.

10 "And on the eighth day he shall take two male lambs without blemish, one ewe-lamb of the first year without blemish, three tenth-parts of fine flour for a food-offering mingled with oil, and one log of oil. 11 And the priest who makes him clean shall present the man who is to be made clean and those things before the LORD at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 12 And the priest shall take one male lamb and offer him for a trespass-offering, and the log of oil, and wave them for a wave-offering before the LORD. 13 And he shall slay the lamb in the place where he kills the sin-offering and the burnt-offering, in the holy-place. As the sin-offering is the priest's, so is the trespass-offering. It is most holy. 14 And the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass-offering, and the priest shall put it upon the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot. 15 And the priest shall take some of the log of oil and pour it into the palm of his own left hand. 16 And the priest shall dip his right finger in the oil that is in his left hand and shall sprinkle some of the oil with his finger seven times before the LORD. 17 And the priest shall put some of the rest of the oil that is in his hand upon the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot, upon the blood of the trespass-offering. 18 And the remnant of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall pour upon the head of him who is to be cleansed. And the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD. 19 And the priest shall offer the sin-offering and make an atonement for him who is to be cleansed from his uncleanness, and afterward he shall kill the burnt-offering. 20 And the priest shall offer the burnt-offering and the food-offering upon the altar. And the priest shall make an atonement for him, and he shall be clean.

21 "And if he is poor and cannot afford these things, then he shall take one lamb for a trespass-offering to be waved to make an atonement for him, one tenth-part of fine flour mingled with oil for a food-offering, a log of oil, 22 And two turtle-doves or two young pigeons, such as he is able to afford, and one shall be a sin-offering and the other a burnt-offering. 23 And he shall bring them on the eighth day for his cleansing to the priest at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the LORD. 24 And the priest shall take the lamb of the trespass-offering and the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them for a wave-offering before the LORD. 25 And he shall kill the lamb of the trespass-offering, and the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass-offering and put it upon the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot. 26 And the priest shall pour some of the oil into the palm of his own left hand. 27 And the priest shall sprinkle with his right finger some of the oil that is in his left hand seven times before the LORD. 28 And the priest shall put some of the oil that is in his hand upon the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot, upon the place of the blood of the trespass-offering. 29 And the rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall put upon the head of him who is to be cleansed to make an atonement for him before the LORD. 30 And he shall offer one of the turtle-doves or of the young pigeons, such as he can afford, 31 Even such as he is able to afford, one for a sin-offering and the other for a burnt-offering, with the food-offering. And the priest shall make an atonement for him who is to be cleansed before the LORD. 32 This is the law of him in whom is the plague of leprosy, whose hand is not able to afford that which pertains to his cleansing."

33 And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying, 34 "When you have come into the land of Canaan, which I give to you for a possession, and I put the plague of leprosy in a house of the land of your possession, 35 And he who owns the house comes and tells the priest, saying, 'It seems to me there is something like a plague in the house,' 36 The priest shall command that they empty the house before the priest enters to see the plague so that all that is in the house may not be made unclean. And afterward, the priest shall go in to see the house. 37 And he shall look at the plague, and behold, if the plague is in the walls of the house with hollow streaks, greenish or reddish, which in sight are lower than the wall, 38 Then the priest shall go out of the house to the door of the house and shut the house up seven days. 39 And the priest shall come back the seventh day and shall look, and behold, if the plague is spread in the walls of the house, 40 Then the priest shall command that they take away the stones in which the plague is, and they shall cast them into an unclean place outside the city. 41 And he shall cause the house to be scraped inside on all sides, and they shall pour out the dust that they scrape off outside the city into an unclean place. 42 And they shall take other stones and put them in the place of those stones, and he shall take other mortar and shall plaster the house.

43 "And if the plague returns and breaks out in the house after he has taken away the stones, after he has scraped the house, and after it is plastered, 44 Then the priest shall come and look, and behold, if the plague is spread in the house, it is a fretting leprosy in the house. It is unclean. 45 And he shall break down the house, its stones, its timber, and all the mortar of the house, and he shall carry them forth out of the city to an unclean place. 46 Moreover, he who goes into the house all the while that it is shut up shall be unclean until the evening. 47 He who lies in the house shall wash his clothes, and he who eats in the house shall wash his clothes.

48 "And if the priest comes in and looks upon it, and behold, the plague has not spread in the house after the house was plastered, then the priest shall pronounce the house clean because the plague is healed. 49 And he shall take to cleanse the house two birds, cedar-wood, scarlet, and hyssop. 50 And he shall kill one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water, 51 And he shall take the cedar-wood, the hyssop, the scarlet, and the living bird and dip them in the blood of the slain bird and in the running water, and sprinkle the house seven times. 52 And he shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird, with the running water, with the living bird, with the cedar-wood, with the hyssop, and with the scarlet. 53 But he shall let the living bird go out of the city into the open fields and make an atonement for the house. And it shall be clean."

54 This is the law for all manner of plague of leprosy and itch, 55 And for the leprosy of a garment and of a house, 56 And for a rising, for a scab, and for a bright spot, 57 To teach when it is unclean and when it is clean. This is the law of leprosy.

[#lev015%breakable]
=== Chapter 15

[.outline.text-center]
_The uncleanness of men in their issues, 1-12. The cleansing of them, 13-18. The uncleanness of women in their issues, 19-27. Their cleansing, 28-33._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying, 2 "Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, 'When any man has a running issue out of his flesh, because of his issue he is unclean. 3 And this shall be his uncleanness in his issue: whether his flesh shall run with his issue, or his flesh has stopped from his issue, it is his uncleanness. 4 Every bed on which he lies who has the issue is unclean. And everything on which he sits shall be unclean. 5 And whoever touches his bed shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening. 6 And he who sits on anything on which he sat who has the issue shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening. 7 And he who touches the flesh of him who has the issue shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening. 8 And if he who has the issue spits upon him who is clean, then he shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening. 9 And whatever saddle he rides upon that has the issue shall be unclean. 10 And whoever touches anything that was under him shall be unclean until the evening. And he who bears any of those things shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening. 11 And whomever he touches who has the issue (and has not rinsed his hands in water), he [who was touched] shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening. 12 And the vessel of earth that he who has the issue touches shall be broken, and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water.

13 'And when he who has an issue is cleansed of his issue, he shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing, wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean. 14 And on the eighth day he shall take for himself two turtle-doves or two young pigeons, come before the LORD at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and give them to the priest. 15 And the priest shall offer them, one for a sin-offering and the other for a burnt-offering. And the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD for his issue.

16 'And if any man's seed of copulation shall go from him, then he shall wash all his flesh in water and be unclean until the evening. 17 And every garment and every skin on which is the seed of copulation shall be washed with water and be unclean until the evening. 18 The woman also with whom a man lies with seed of copulation, they shall both bathe themselves in water and be unclean until the evening.

19 'And if a woman has an issue, and her issue in her flesh is blood, she shall be put apart seven days. And whoever touches her shall be unclean until the evening. 20 And everything that she lies upon in her separation shall be unclean. Everything that she sits upon shall also be unclean. 21 And whoever touches her bed shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening. 22 And whoever touches anything that she sat upon shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening. 23 And if it is on her bed or on anything on which she sits when he touches it, he shall be unclean until the evening. 24 And if any man lies with her at all, and her flowers are upon him, he shall be unclean seven days. And every bed on which he lies shall be unclean.

25 'And if a woman has an issue of her blood many days out of the time of her separation, or if it runs beyond the time of her separation, all the days of the issue of her uncleanness shall be as the days of her separation. She shall be unclean. 26 Every bed on which she lies all the days of her issue shall be to her as the bed of her separation. And whatever she sits upon shall be unclean as the uncleanness of her separation. 27 And whoever touches those things shall be unclean. He shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening. 28 But if she is cleansed of her issue, then she shall number to herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean. 29 And on the eighth day she shall take for herself two turtle-doves or two young pigeons, and bring them to the priest at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 30 And the priest shall offer one for a sin-offering and the other for a burnt-offering. And the priest shall make an atonement for her before the LORD for the issue of her uncleanness.'

31 "Thus you shall separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness so that they do not die in their uncleanness when they defile my tabernacle that is among them." 32 This is the law of him who has an issue and of him whose seed goes from him, and he is defiled thereby; 33 And of her who is unwell with her flowers; of anyone who has an issue, whether a man or a woman; and of him who lies with her who is unclean.

[#lev016%breakable]
=== Chapter 16

[.outline.text-center]
_How the high priest must enter into the holy place, 1-10. The sin offering for himself, 11-14. The sin offering for the people, 15-19. The scape-goat, 20-28. The yearly feast of the expiations, 29-34._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron when they offered before the LORD and died. 2 And the LORD said to Moses, "Speak to Aaron your brother that he shall not come at all times into the holy place within the veil before the mercy-seat, which is upon the ark, so that he may not die. For I will appear in the cloud upon the mercy-seat. 3 Thus shall Aaron come into the holy place: with a young bull for a sin-offering and a ram for a burnt-offering. 4 He shall put on the holy linen coat and have the linen breeches upon his body, and he shall be girded with the linen girdle, and with the linen miter he shall be attired. These are holy garments; therefore, he shall wash his flesh in water and put them on in this manner. 5 And he shall take from the congregation of the children of Israel two kids of the goats for a sin-offering and one ram for a burnt-offering. 6 And Aaron shall offer his bull of the sin-offering, which is for himself, and make an atonement for himself and for his house. 7 And he shall take the two goats and present them before the LORD at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation. 8 And Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats: one lot for the LORD and the other lot for the scape-goat. 9 And Aaron shall bring the goat upon which the LORD'S lot fell and offer him for a sin-offering. 10 But the goat on which the lot fell to be the scape-goat shall be presented alive before the LORD to make an atonement with him and to let him go for a scape-goat into the wilderness.

11 "And Aaron shall bring the bull of the sin-offering, which is for himself, and shall make an atonement for himself and for his house, and shall kill the bull of the sin-offering which is for himself. 12 And he shall take a censer full of burning coals of fire from off the altar before the LORD, and his hands full of sweet incense beaten small, and bring it within the veil. 13 And he shall put the incense upon the fire before the LORD, and the cloud of the incense shall cover the mercy-seat that is upon the testimony so that he will not die. 14 And he shall take some of the blood of the bull and sprinkle it with his finger upon the mercy-seat eastward. And before the mercy-seat he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times.

15 "Then he shall kill the goat of the sin-offering that is for the people and bring its blood within the veil. And he shall do with that blood as he did with the blood of the bull and sprinkle it upon the mercy-seat and before the mercy-seat. 16 And he shall make an atonement for the holy place because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel and because of their transgressions in all their sins. And he shall do likewise for the Tabernacle of the Congregation that remains among them in the midst of their uncleanness. 17 And there shall be no man in the Tabernacle of the Congregation when he goes in to make an atonement in the holy place until he comes out and has made an atonement for himself, for his household, and for all the congregation of Israel. 18 And he shall go out to the altar that is before the LORD and make an atonement for it, and shall take some of the blood of the bull and some of the blood of the goat and put it upon the horns of the altar all around. 19 And he shall sprinkle some of the blood upon it with his finger seven times, cleanse it, and hallow it from the uncleanness of the children of Israel.

20 "And when he has made an end of reconciling the holy place, the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the altar, he shall bring the live goat. 21 And Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat and confess over it all the iniquities of the children of Israel and all their transgressions in all their sins, putting them upon the head of the goat, and shall send it away by the hand of a fit man into the wilderness. 22 And the goat shall bear upon itself all their iniquities to a land not inhabited. And he shall let the goat go in the wilderness.

23 "And Aaron shall come into the Tabernacle of the Congregation and shall take off the linen garments which he put on when he went into the holy place and leave them there. 24 And he shall wash his flesh with water in the holy place, put on his garments, come forth, offer his burnt-offering and the burnt-offering of the people, and make an atonement for himself and for the people. 25 And the fat of the sin-offering he shall burn upon the altar. 26 And he who let the goat go for the scape-goat shall wash his clothes, bathe his flesh in water, and afterward come into the camp. 27 And the bull for the sin-offering and the goat for the sin-offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the holy place, someone shall carry forth outside the camp and they shall burn in the fire their skins, their flesh, and their dung. 28 And he who burns them shall wash his clothes, bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp.

29 "And this shall be a statute forever to you, that in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict your souls and do no work at all, whether it be one of your own country or a stranger who sojourns among you. 30 For on that day the priest shall make an atonement for you to cleanse you so that you may be clean from all your sins before the LORD. 31 It shall be a sabbath of rest to you, and you shall afflict your souls by a statute forever. 32 And the priest whom he anoints and whom he consecrates to minister in the priest's office in his father's stead shall make the atonement and put on the linen clothes, even the holy garments. 33 And he shall make an atonement for the holy sanctuary and shall make an atonement for the Tabernacle of the Congregation and for the altar. And he shall make an atonement for the priests and for all the people of the congregation. 34 And this shall be an everlasting statute to you to make an atonement for the children of Israel for all their sins once a year." And he did as the LORD commanded Moses.

[#lev017%breakable]
=== Chapter 17

[.outline.text-center]
_The blood of all slain beasts must be offered to the Lord at the door of the tabernacle, 1-6. They must not offer to idols, 7-9. All eating of blood is forbidden, 10-14; and of all that dies by itself or is torn, 15, 16._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Speak to Aaron and to his sons and to all the children of Israel and say to them, 'This is the thing which the LORD has commanded, saying, 3 "Whatever man there may be of the house of Israel who kills an ox, lamb, or goat in the camp, or who kills it out of the camp, 4 And does not bring it to the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation to offer an offering to the LORD before the tabernacle of the LORD, blood shall be imputed to that man. He has shed blood, and that man shall be cut off from among his people. 5 This is so that the children of Israel may bring their sacrifices which they offer in the open field, even so that they may bring them to the LORD at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, to the priest, and offer them for peace-offerings to the LORD. 6 And the priest shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar of the LORD at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation and burn the fat for a sweet savor to the LORD. 7 And they shall no longer offer their sacrifices to idols, with which they have committed idolatry. This shall be a statute forever to them throughout their generations."'

8 "And you shall say to them, 'Whatever man there may be of the house of Israel or of the strangers which sojourn among you who offers a burnt-offering or sacrifice, 9 And does not bring it to the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation to offer it to the LORD, even that man shall be cut off from among his people.

10 'And whatever man there may be of the house of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn among you who eats any manner of blood, I will even set my face against that soul who eats blood and will cut him off from among his people. 11 For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you upon the altar to make an atonement for your souls, for it is the blood that makes an atonement for the soul.' 12 Therefore, I said to the children of Israel, 'No soul of you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger who sojourns among you eat blood.' 13 And whatever man there may be of the children of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn among you who hunts and catches any beast or bird that may be eaten, he shall even pour out its blood and cover it with dust.

14 "For it is the life of all flesh, its blood is for its life; therefore, I said to the children of Israel, 'You shall eat the blood of no manner of flesh, for the life of all flesh is its blood.' Whoever eats it shall be cut off. 15 And every soul who eats that which died of itself or that which was torn by beasts (whether it is someone of your own country or a stranger), he shall both wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. Then he shall be clean. 16 But if he does not wash them, nor bathe his flesh, then he shall bear his iniquity."

[#lev018%breakable]
=== Chapter 18

[.outline.text-center]
_Unlawful marriages and unlawful lusts, 1-30._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, 'I am the LORD your God. 3 After the doings of the land of Egypt in which you dwelt, you shall not do, and after the doings of the land of Canaan where I bring you, you shall not do, neither shall you walk in their ordinances. 4 You shall perform my judgments and keep my ordinances to walk in them. I am the LORD your God. [[lev018-005]]5 You shall therefore keep my statutes and my judgments, which if a man does, he shall live in them. I am the LORD.

6 'None of you shall approach any who is near of kin to him to uncover their nakedness. I am the LORD. [[lev018-007]]7 The nakedness of your father or the nakedness of your mother, you shall not uncover. She is your mother. You shall not uncover her nakedness. 8 The nakedness of your father's wife you shall not uncover. It is your father's nakedness. 9 The nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father or daughter of your mother, whether born at home or born abroad, even their nakedness you shall not uncover. 10 The nakedness of your son's daughter or of your daughter's daughter, even their nakedness you shall not uncover, for theirs is your own nakedness. 11 The nakedness of your father's wife's daughter, begotten by your father (she is your sister), you shall not uncover her nakedness. 12 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's sister. She is your father's near kinswoman. 13 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, for she is your mother's near kinswoman. 14 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother. You shall not approach his wife. She is your aunt. 15 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law. She is your son's wife. You shall not uncover her nakedness. 16 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife. It is your brother's nakedness. 17 You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter, neither shall you take her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter to uncover her nakedness, for they are her near kinswomen. It is wickedness. 18 Neither shall you take a wife in addition to her sister as a rival to uncover her nakedness in opposition to her in her life-time.

19 'Also you shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness as long as she is put apart for her uncleanness. 20 Moreover, you shall not lie carnally with your neighbor's wife to defile yourself with her. 21 And you shall not let any of your children pass through the fire to Molech, neither shall you profane the name of your God. I am the LORD. 22 You shall not lie with mankind as with womankind. It is an abomination. 23 You shall not lie with any beast to defile yourself therewith, neither shall any woman stand before a beast to lie down thereto. It is a perversion.

24 'Do not defile yourselves in any of these things. For in all these the nations are defiled which I cast out before you, 25 And the land is defiled; therefore, I visit its iniquity upon it, and the land itself vomits out her inhabitants. 26 You shall therefore keep my statutes and my judgments and shall not commit any of these abominations, neither any of your own nation, nor any stranger who sojourns among you 27 (For all these abominations the men of the land have done who were before you, and the land is defiled), 28 So that the land may not vomit you out also when you defile it, as it vomited out the nations that were before you. 29 For whoever commits any of these abominations, even the souls who commit them shall be cut off from among their people. 30 Therefore, you shall keep my ordinance so that you do not commit any one of these abominable customs which were committed before you and that you do not defile yourselves in them. I am the LORD your God.'"

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.5]*: Quoted in xref:#gal003-012[Galatians 3:12]. *[v.7]*: Quoted in xref:#rom010-005[Romans 10:5].

[#lev019%breakable]
=== Chapter 19

[.outline.text-center]
_A repetition of various laws, 1-37._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel and say to them, 'You shall be holy, for I, the LORD your God, am holy. 3 You shall each fear his mother and his father and keep my sabbaths. I am the LORD your God. 4 Do not turn to idols, nor make for yourselves molten gods. I am the LORD your God.

5 'And if you offer a sacrifice of peace-offerings to the LORD, you shall offer it at your own will. 6 It shall be eaten the same day you offer it and on the next day. And if anything remains until the third day, it shall be burnt in the fire. 7 And if it is eaten at all on the third day, it is abominable. It shall not be accepted. 8 Therefore, everyone who eats it shall bear his iniquity because he has profaned the hallowed thing of the LORD. And that soul shall be cut off from among his people.

9 'And when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field, neither shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest. 10 And you shall not glean your vineyard, neither shall you gather every grape of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the poor and stranger. I am the LORD your God.

11 'You shall not steal, neither deal falsely, neither lie to one another. 12 And you shall not swear by my name falsely, neither shall you profane the name of your God. I am the LORD.

[[lev019-013]]13 'You shall not defraud your neighbor, neither rob him. The wages of him who is hired shall not abide with you all night until the morning. 14 You shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling-block before the blind, but shall fear your God. I am the LORD.

15 'You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment. You shall not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty, but in righteousness you shall judge your neighbor. 16 You shall not go up and down as a gossiper among your people, neither shall you stand against the blood of your neighbor. I am the LORD.

17 'You shall not hate your brother in your heart. You shall certainly rebuke your neighbor and not bear sin because of him. [[lev019-018]]18 You shall not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the LORD.

19 'You shall keep my statutes. You shall not let your livestock engender with a diverse kind. You shall not sow your field with mingled seed, neither shall a garment mingled of linen and woolen come upon you.

20 'And whoever lies carnally with a woman who is a servant betrothed to a husband and not at all redeemed, nor freedom given to her, she shall be scourged. They shall not be put to death because she was not free. 21 And he shall bring his trespass-offering to the LORD at the door of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, even a ram for a trespass-offering. 22 And the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of the trespass-offering before the LORD for his sin which he has done. And the sin which he has done shall be forgiven.

23 'And when you come into the land and have planted all manner of trees for food, then you shall count its fruit as uncircumcised. Three years it shall be as uncircumcised to you. It shall not be eaten. 24 But in the fourth year all its fruit shall be holy to praise the LORD with. 25 And in the fifth year you shall eat its fruit so that it may yield its increase to you. I am the LORD your God.

26 'You shall not eat anything with the blood. You shall not use enchantment, nor observe times. 27 You shall not round the corners of your heads, neither shall you mar the corners of your beard. 28 You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you. I am the LORD.

29 'Do not profane your daughter to cause her to be a harlot, lest the land should fall to lewdness and the land become full of wickedness. 30 You shall keep my sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary. I am the LORD.

31 'Do not regard those who have familiar spirits, neither seek after wizards to be defiled by them. I am the LORD your God.

32 'You shall rise up before the hoary head and honor the face of the old man, and fear your God. I am the LORD.

33 'And if a stranger sojourns with you in your land, you shall not oppress him. 34 But the stranger who dwells with you shall be to you as one born among you, and you shall love him as yourself, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. I am the LORD your God.

35 'You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity. 36 Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin you shall have. I am the LORD your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt. 37 Therefore, you shall observe all my statutes and all my judgments and do them. I am the LORD.'"

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.13]*: Quoted in xref:#mrk010-019[Mark 10:19]. *[v.18]*: Quoted in xref:#mth005-043[Matthew 5:43], xref:#mth019-019[19:19], xref:#mth022-039[22:39]; xref:#mrk012-031[Mark 12:31]; xref:#luk010-027[Luke 10:27]; xref:#rom013-009[Romans 13:9]; xref:#gal005-014[Galatians 5:14]; xref:#jms002-008[James 2:8].

[#lev020%breakable]
=== Chapter 20

[.outline.text-center]
_Of him who gives his children to Moloch, 1-3. Of him who favors such a one, 4, 5. Of going to wizards, 6. Of sanctification, 7, 8. Of him who curses his parents, 9. Of adultery, 10. Of incest, 11, 12. Of sodomy, 13, 14. Of bestiality, 15-17. Of uncleanness, 18-21. Obedience is required with holiness, 22-26. Wizards must be put to death, 27._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Again you shall say to the children of Israel, 'Any man of the children of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel who gives any of his children to Molech, he shall surely be put to death. The people of the land shall stone him with stones. 3 And I will set my face against that man and will cut him off from among his people because he has given his children to Molech to defile my sanctuary and to profane my holy name. 4 And if the people of the land at all hide their eyes from the man when he gives his children to Molech and do not kill him, 5 Then I will set my face against that man and against his family and will cut him off and all who go astray after him to commit lewdness with Molech from among their people.

6 'And the soul who turns after those who have familiar spirits and after wizards to go astray after them, I will even set my face against that soul and will cut him off from among his people. 7 Sanctify yourselves therefore and be holy, for I am the LORD your God. 8 And you shall keep my statutes and do them. I am the LORD who sanctifies you.

[[lev020-009]]9 'For everyone who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death. He has cursed his father or his mother. His blood shall be upon him.

10 'And the man who commits adultery with another man's wife, even he who commits adultery with his neighbor's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death. 11 And the man who lies with his father's wife has uncovered his father's nakedness. Both of them shall surely be put to death. Their blood shall be upon them. 12 And if a man lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death. They have committed a perversion. Their blood shall be upon them. 13 If a man also lies with mankind, as he lies with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination. They shall surely be put to death. Their blood shall be upon them. 14 And if a man takes a wife and her mother, it is wickedness. They shall be burnt with fire—both he and they—so that there is no wickedness among you. 15 And if a man lies with a beast, he shall surely be put to death. And you shall slay the beast. 16 And if a woman approaches any beast and lies down thereto, you shall kill the woman and the beast. They shall surely be put to death. Their blood shall be upon them.

17 'And if a man takes his sister, his father's daughter, or his mother's daughter, and sees her nakedness, and she sees his nakedness, it is a wicked thing, and they shall be cut off in the sight of their people. He has uncovered his sister's nakedness. He shall bear his iniquity. 18 And if a man lies with a woman having her sickness and uncovers her nakedness, he has discovered her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood, and both of them shall be cut off from among their people. 19 And you shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, nor of your father's sister, for he uncovers his near kin. They shall bear their iniquity. 20 And if a man lies with his uncle's wife, he has uncovered his uncle's nakedness. They shall bear their sin. They shall die childless. 21 And if a man takes his brother's wife, it is an unclean thing. He has uncovered his brother's nakedness. They shall be childless.

22 'You shall therefore keep all my statutes and all my judgments and do them so that the land where I bring you to dwell therein may not vomit you out. 23 And you shall not walk in the manners of the nations which I cast out before you, for they committed all these things, and therefore, I abhorred them. 24 But I have said to you, "You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess it, a land that flows with milk and honey." I am the LORD your God, who has separated you from other people. 25 You shall therefore distinguish between clean beasts and unclean and between unclean birds and clean. And you shall not make your souls abominable by beast or by bird, or by any manner of living animal that creeps on the ground, which I have separated from you as unclean. 26 And you shall be holy to me, for I, the LORD, am holy and have severed you from other people so that you should be mine.

27 'Also a man or a woman who has a familiar spirit or who is a wizard shall surely be put to death. They shall stone them with stones. Their blood shall be upon them.'"

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.9]*: Reference, xref:#mth015-004[Matthew 15:4]; xref:#mrk007-010[Mark 7:10].

[#lev021%breakable]
=== Chapter 21

[.outline.text-center]
_Of the priests' mourning, 1-5. Of their holiness, 6. Of their marriages, 7. Of their estimation, 8. Of the priest's daughter convicted of lewdness, 9. Of the high priest's holiness, 10-12. Of his marriage, 13-15. The priests who have blemishes must not minister in the sanctuary, 16-24._

1 And the LORD said to Moses, "Speak to the priests, the sons of Aaron, and say to them, 'No one shall be defiled for the dead among his people, 2 But for his kin who are near to him, for his mother, for his father, for his son, for his daughter, for his brother, 3 And for his sister, a virgin, who is near to him and has had no husband—for her he may be defiled. 4 But he shall not defile himself, being a chief man among his people, to profane himself. 5 They shall not make baldness upon their head, neither shall they shave off the corner of their beard, nor make any cuttings in their flesh. 6 They shall be holy to their God and not profane the name of their God. For they offer the offerings of the LORD made by fire and the bread of their God; therefore, they shall be holy. 7 They shall not take a wife who is a lewd woman, or profane, neither shall they take a woman put away from her husband, for he is holy to his God. 8 You shall sanctify him therefore, for he offers the bread of your God. He shall be holy to you. For I, the LORD, who sanctify you, am holy. 9 And the daughter of any priest, if she profanes herself by lewdness, she profanes her father. She shall be burnt with fire.

10 'And he who is the high priest among his brothers, upon whose head the anointing oil was poured, and who is consecrated to put on the garments, shall not uncover his head, nor rend his clothes, 11 Neither shall he go near any dead body, nor defile himself for his father or for his mother, 12 Neither shall he go out of the sanctuary, nor profane the sanctuary of his God, for the crown of the anointing oil of his God is upon him. I am the LORD. 13 And he shall take a wife in her virginity. 14 A widow, a divorced woman, profane, or a harlot, these he shall not take, but he shall take a virgin of his own people for a wife, 15 Neither shall he profane his offspring among his people. For I, the LORD, sanctify him.'"

16 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 17 "Speak to Aaron, saying, 'Whoever he may be of your offspring in their generations who has any blemish, let him not approach to offer the bread of his God. 18 For whatever man he may be who has a blemish, he shall not approach: a blind man, a lame, or he who has a flat nose, or anything superfluous, 19 Or a man who is broken-footed, broken-handed, 20 Crooked-backed, a dwarf, who has a blemish in his eye, has scurvy, is scabbed, or has his peculiar members broken. 21 No man of the offspring of Aaron the priest who has a blemish shall come near to offer the offerings of the LORD made by fire. He has a blemish. He shall not come near to offer the bread of his God. 22 He shall eat the bread of his God, both of the most holy and of the holy. 23 Only he shall not go in to the veil, nor come near to the altar, because he has a blemish, so that he may not profane my sanctuaries. For I, the LORD, sanctify them.'" 24 And Moses told it to Aaron and to his sons and to all the children of Israel.

[#lev022%breakable]
=== Chapter 22

[.outline.text-center]
_The priests in their uncleanness must abstain from the holy things, 1-5. How they shall be cleansed, 6-9. Who of the priest's house may eat of the holy things, 10-16. The sacrifices must be without blemish, 17-25. The age of the sacrifice, 26-28. The law of eating the sacrifice of thanksgiving, 29-33._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Speak to Aaron and to his sons that they separate themselves from the holy things of the children of Israel and that they do not profane my holy name in those things which they hallow to me. I am the LORD. 3 Say to them, 'Any man of all your posterity among your generations who approaches the holy things, which the children of Israel hallow to the LORD, having his uncleanness upon him, that soul shall be cut off from my presence. I am the LORD. 4 If any man of the offspring of Aaron is a leper or has a running issue, he shall not eat the holy things until he is clean. And whoever touches anything that is unclean by the dead, or a man whose seed goes from him, 5 Or whoever touches any creeping animal by which he may be made unclean, or a man by whom he may become unclean, whatever uncleanness he has, 6 The soul which has touched any of these shall be unclean until evening and shall not eat the holy things unless he washes his flesh with water. 7 And when the sun is set, he shall be clean, and afterward he may eat the holy things, because it is his food. 8 That which dies of itself or is torn by beasts he shall not eat to defile himself with it. I am the LORD. 9 They shall therefore keep my ordinance, lest they bear sin for it and die therein, if they profane it. I, the LORD, sanctify them.

10 'No stranger shall eat the holy thing. A sojourner of the priest or a hired servant shall not eat the holy thing. 11 But if the priest buys any soul with his money, he shall eat it, and also he who is born in his house, they shall eat his food. 12 If the priest's daughter also is married to a stranger, she may not eat an offering of the holy things. 13 But if the priest's daughter is a widow or divorced, and has no child, and has returned to her father's house as in her youth, she shall eat her father's food, but no stranger shall eat it. 14 And if a man eats the holy thing unknowingly, then he shall add to it a fifth part and shall give it to the priest with the holy thing. 15 And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel which they offer to the LORD, 16 Or allow them to bear the iniquity of trespass, when they eat their holy things. For I, the LORD, sanctify them.'"

17 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 18 "Speak to Aaron and to his sons and to all the children of Israel and say to them, 'Any man of the house of Israel or of the strangers in Israel who will offer his oblation for all his vows and for all his voluntary-offerings, which they will offer to the LORD for a burnt-offering, 19 You shall offer at your own will a male without blemish from the bulls, from the sheep, or from the goats. 20 But whatever has a blemish, you shall not offer, for it shall not be acceptable for you. 21 And whoever offers a sacrifice of peace-offerings to the LORD to accomplish his vow, or a voluntary-offering in bulls or sheep, it shall be perfect to be accepted. There shall be no blemish in it. 22 Blind, broken, maimed, having a wen, scurvy, or scabbed, you shall not offer these to the LORD, nor make an offering by fire of them upon the altar to the LORD. 23 Either a bull or a lamb that has anything superfluous or lacking in his parts, that you may offer for a voluntary-offering, but for a vow it shall not be accepted. 24 You shall not offer to the LORD that which is bruised, crushed, broken, or cut, neither shall you make any offering thereof in your land, 25 Neither from a stranger's hand shall you offer the bread of your God of any of these, because their corruption is in them and blemishes are in them. They shall not be accepted for you.'"

26 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 27 "When a bull, a sheep, or a goat is brought forth, it shall remain seven days with its mother. And from the eighth day and thereafter it shall be accepted for an offering made by fire to the LORD. 28 And whether it is cow or ewe, you shall not kill it and her young both in one day. 29 And when you will offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving to the LORD, offer it at your own will. 30 On the same day it shall be eaten up. You shall leave none of it until the next day. I am the LORD. 31 Therefore, you shall keep my commandments and do them. I am the LORD.

32 "You shall not profane my holy name, but I will be hallowed among the children of Israel. I am the LORD who hallows you, 33 Who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God. I am the LORD."

[#lev023%breakable]
=== Chapter 23

[.outline.text-center]
_The feasts of the Lord, 1, 2. The sabbath, 3. The passover, 4-8. The sheaf of first-fruits, 9-14. The feast of Pentecost, 15-21. Gleanings are to be left for the poor, 22. The feast of trumpets, 23-25. The day of atonement, 26-32. The feast of tabernacles, 33-44._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, 'Concerning the feasts of the LORD which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my feasts.

3 'Six days work shall be done, but the seventh day is the sabbath of rest, a holy convocation. You shall do no work. It is the sabbath of the LORD in all your dwellings.

4 'These are the feasts of the LORD, holy convocations, which you shall proclaim in their seasons. 5 On the fourteenth day of the first month at evening is the LORD'S passover. 6 And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread to the LORD. Seven days you must eat unleavened bread. 7 On the first day you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no servile work on it. 8 But you shall offer an offering made by fire to the LORD seven days. On the seventh day is a holy convocation, you shall do no servile work on it.'"

9 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 10 "Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, 'When you come into the land which I give to you and reap the harvest thereof, you shall bring a sheaf of the first-fruits of your harvest to the priest. 11 And he shall wave the sheaf before the LORD to be accepted for you. On the next day after the sabbath the priest shall wave it. 12 And you shall offer on the day when you wave the sheaf a male lamb without blemish of the first year for a burnt-offering to the LORD. 13 And the food-offering thereof shall be two tenth-parts of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire to the LORD for a sweet savor. And the drink-offering thereof shall be a fourth part of a hin of wine. 14 And you shall eat neither bread, parched grain, nor new grain until the same day that you have brought an offering to your God. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.

15 'And you shall count for yourselves from the next day after the sabbath, from the day that you brought the sheaf of the wave-offering, seven complete sabbaths. 16 Even to the next day after the seventh sabbath you shall number fifty days, and you shall offer a new food-offering to the LORD. 17 You shall bring out of your habitations two wave-loaves. They shall be made of two tenth-parts of fine flour and they shall be baked with leaven. They are the first-fruits to the LORD. 18 And you shall offer with the bread seven lambs without blemish of the first year, and one young bull and two rams. They shall be for a burnt-offering to the LORD, with their food-offering and their drink offerings, even an offering made by fire, a sweet savor to the LORD. 19 Then you shall sacrifice one kid of the goats for a sin-offering and two lambs of the first year for a sacrifice of peace-offerings. 20 And the priest shall wave them with the bread of the first-fruits for a wave-offering before the LORD, with the two lambs. They shall be holy to the LORD for the priest. 21 And you shall proclaim on the same day that it may be a holy convocation to you. You shall do no servile work on it. It shall be a statute forever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.

22 'And when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not make clean riddance of the corners of your field when you reap, neither shall you gather any gleaning of your harvest. You shall leave them for the poor and for the stranger. I am the LORD your God.'"

23 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 24 "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, you shall have a sabbath, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation. 25 You shall do no servile work on it, but you shall offer an offering made by fire to the LORD.'"

26 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 27 "Also on the tenth day of this seventh month there shall be a day of atonement. It shall be a holy convocation to you, and you shall afflict your souls and offer an offering made by fire to the LORD. 28 And you shall do no work on that same day, for it is a day of atonement to make an atonement for you before the LORD your God. 29 For whatever soul it may be who is not afflicted on that same day, he shall be cut off from among his people. 30 And whatever soul it may be who does any work on that same day, the same soul I will destroy from among his people. 31 You shall do no manner of work. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings. 32 It shall be to you a sabbath of rest, and you shall afflict your souls on the ninth day of the month at evening. From evening to evening you shall celebrate your sabbath."

33 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 34 "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'The fifteenth day of this seventh month shall be the feast of tabernacles for seven days to the LORD. 35 On the first day there shall be a holy convocation. You shall do no servile work on it. 36 Seven days you shall offer an offering made by fire to the LORD. On the eighth day there shall be a holy convocation to you and you shall offer an offering made by fire to the LORD. It is a solemn assembly and you shall do no servile work on it.

37 'These are the feasts of the LORD which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations to offer an offering made by fire to the LORD, a burnt-offering, a food-offering, a sacrifice, and drink-offerings, everything upon its day, 38 Beside the sabbaths of the LORD, beside your gifts, beside all your vows, and beside all your voluntary-offerings which you give to the LORD.

39 'Also on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the fruit of the land, you shall keep a feast to the LORD seven days. On the first day there shall be a sabbath and on the eighth day there shall be a sabbath. 40 And you shall take for yourselves on the first day the boughs of beautiful trees—branches of palm-trees, the boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook—and you shall rejoice before the LORD your God seven days. 41 And you shall keep it a feast to the LORD seven days in the year. It shall be a statute forever in your generations. You shall celebrate it in the seventh month. 42 You shall dwell in booths seven days. All who are natives of Israel shall dwell in booths, 43 So that your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. I am the LORD your God.'" 44 And Moses declared to the children of Israel the feasts of the LORD.

[#lev024%breakable]
=== Chapter 24

[.outline.text-center]
_The oil for the lamps, 1-4. The show-bread, 5-9. Shelomith's son blasphemes, 10-12. The law of blasphemy, 13-16. Of murder, 17. Of damage, 18-22. The blasphemer is stoned, 23._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Command the children of Israel that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light to cause the lamps to burn continually. 3 Outside the veil of the testimony, in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, Aaron shall order it from the evening to the morning before the LORD continually. It shall be a statute forever in your generations. 4 You shall order the lamps upon the pure candlestick before the LORD continually.

5 "And you shall take fine flour and bake twelve cakes with it. Two tenth-parts shall be in one cake. 6 And you shall set them in two rows, six in a row, upon the pure table before the LORD. 7 And you shall put pure frankincense upon each row so that it may be on the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire to the LORD. 8 Every sabbath he shall set it in order before the LORD continually, being taken from the children of Israel by an everlasting covenant. 9 And it shall be Aaron's and his sons', and they shall eat it in the holy place, for it is most holy to him from the offerings of the LORD made by fire by a perpetual statute."

10 And the son of an Israelite woman whose father was an Egyptian went out among the children of Israel, and this son of the Israelite woman and a man of Israel strove together in the camp. 11 And the Israelite woman's son blasphemed the name of the LORD and cursed. And they brought him to Moses (and his mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan), 12 And they put him in custody so that the mind of the LORD might be shown to them.

13 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 14 "Bring forth him who has cursed outside the camp, and let all who heard him lay their hands upon his head, and let all the congregation stone him. 15 And you shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'Whoever curses his God shall bear his sin. 16 And he who blasphemes the name of the LORD, he shall surely be put to death, and all the congregation shall certainly stone him. The stranger, as well as he who is born in the land, when he blasphemes the name of the LORD, shall be put to death.

17 'And he who kills any man shall surely be put to death. 18 And he who kills a beast shall make it good, beast for beast. 19 And if a man causes a blemish in his neighbor, as he has done, so it shall be done to him, [[lev024-020]]20 Breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. As he has caused a blemish in a man, so it shall be done to him. 21 And he who kills a beast, he shall restore it. And he who kills a man, he shall be put to death. 22 You shall have one manner of law for the stranger as well as for someone of your own country. For I am the LORD your God.'"

23 And Moses spoke to the children of Israel that they should bring forth him who had cursed out of the camp and stone him with stones. And the children of Israel did as the LORD commanded Moses.

[%breakable]
References::
*[v.20]*: Reference, xref:#mth005-038[Matthew 5:38].

[#lev025%breakable]
=== Chapter 25

[.outline.text-center]
_The sabbath of the seventh year, 1-7. The jubilee in the fiftieth year, 8-13. Of oppression, 14-17. A blessing of obedience, 18-22. The redemption of land, 23-28. Of houses, 29-34. Compassion for the poor, 35-38. The usage of servants, 39-46. The redemption of servants, 47-55._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses on mount Sinai, saying, 2 "Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, 'When you come into the land which I give you, the land shall keep a sabbath to the LORD. 3 Six years you shall sow your field and six years you shall prune your vineyard and gather in the fruit thereof, 4 But in the seventh year there shall be a sabbath of rest for the land, a sabbath for the LORD. You shall neither sow your field, nor prune your vineyard. 5 That which grows of its own accord of your harvest, you shall not reap, neither gather the grapes of your vine undressed, for it is a year of rest for the land. 6 And the sabbath of the land shall be food for you—for you, for your man-servant, for your woman-servant, for your hired servant, for your stranger who sojourns with you, 7 For your livestock, and for the beasts that are in your land. All of its increase shall be food.

8 'And you shall number seven sabbaths of years to you, seven times seven years, so that the time of the seven sabbaths of years shall be to you forty-nine years. 9 Then you shall cause the trumpet of the jubilee to sound on the tenth day of the seventh month. On the day of atonement you shall make the trumpet sound throughout all your land. 10 And you shall hallow the fiftieth year and proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee to you, and you shall return every man to his possession and return every man to his family. 11 A jubilee that fiftieth year shall be to you. You shall neither sow nor reap that which grows of itself in it, nor gather the grapes in it from your undressed vine. 12 For it is the jubilee. It shall be holy to you. You shall eat its increase out of the field.

13 'In the year of this jubilee you shall return every man to his possession. 14 And if you sell anything to your neighbor or buy anything from your neighbor's hand, you shall not oppress one another. 15 According to the number of years after the jubilee you shall buy from your neighbor and according to the number of years of the fruits he shall sell to you. 16 According to the multitude of years you shall increase its price and according to the fewness of years you shall diminish its price, for according to the number of the years of the fruits he sells to you. 17 You shall not therefore oppress one another, but you shall fear your God, for I am the LORD your God.

18 'Therefore, you shall do my statutes, keep my judgments, and do them, and you shall dwell in the land in safety. 19 And the land shall yield her fruit, and you shall eat your fill and dwell in it in safety. 20 And if you say, "What shall we eat the seventh year? Behold, we shall not sow nor gather in our increase," 21 Then I will command my blessing upon you in the sixth year and it shall bring forth fruit for three years. 22 And you shall sow the eighth year and eat old fruit until the ninth year. Until its fruits come in you shall eat the old store.

23 'The land shall not be sold forever, for the land is mine, for you are strangers and sojourners with me. 24 And in all the land of your possession you shall grant a redemption for the land.

25 'If your brother becomes poor and sells some of his possession, and if any of his kin comes to redeem it, then he shall redeem that which his brother sold. 26 And if the man has no one to redeem it and he is able to redeem it, 27 Then let him count the years of its sale and restore the surplus to the man to whom he sold it so that he may return to his possession. 28 But if he is not able to restore it to him, then that which is sold shall remain in the hand of him who has bought it until the year of jubilee. And in the jubilee it shall go out and he shall return to his possession.

29 'And if a man sells a dwelling-house in a walled city, then he may redeem it within a whole year after it is sold. Within a full year he may redeem it. 30 And if it is not redeemed within the time of a full year, then the house that is in the walled city shall be established forever to him who bought it throughout his generations. It shall not go out in the jubilee. 31 But the houses of the villages which have no walls around them shall be counted as the fields of the country. They may be redeemed and they shall go out in the jubilee. 32 Nevertheless, the cities of the Levites and the houses of the cities of their possession, the Levites may redeem at any time. 33 And if a man purchases from the Levites, then the house that was sold and the city of his possession shall go out in the year of jubilee, for the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the children of Israel. 34 But the field of the suburbs of their cities may not be sold, for it is their perpetual possession.

35 'And if your brother becomes poor and falls in decay with you, then you shall relieve him as though he were a stranger or a sojourner, and he shall live with you. 36 Take no interest from him or increase, but fear your God so that your brother may live with you. 37 You shall not give him your money upon interest, nor lend him your food for increase. 38 I am the LORD your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan and to be your God.

39 'And if your brother who dwells by you becomes poor and is sold to you, you shall not compel him to serve as a slave. 40 But as a hired servant and as a sojourner he shall be with you and shall serve you until the year of jubilee. 41 And then he shall depart from you—both he and his children with him—and shall return to his own family, and to the possession of his fathers he shall return. 42 For they are my servants which I brought out of the land of Egypt. They shall not be sold as slaves. 43 You shall not rule over him with rigor, but shall fear your God. 44 Both your men-servants and your women-servants which you may have shall be from the heathen who are around you. From them you shall buy men-servants and women-servants. 45 Moreover, from the children of the strangers who sojourn among you, from them you shall buy, and from their families who are with you, which they begot in your land, and they shall be your possession. 46 And you shall take them as an inheritance for your children after you to inherit them for a possession. They shall be your servants forever. But over your brothers the children of Israel, you shall not rule over one another with rigor.

47 'And if a sojourner or a stranger becomes rich by you, and your brother who dwells by him becomes poor and sells himself to the stranger or sojourner by you, or to the stock of the stranger's family, 48 After he is sold he may be redeemed again. One of his brothers may redeem him. 49 His uncle or his uncle's son may redeem him, or anyone who is near of kin to him of his family may redeem him, or if he is able, he may redeem himself. 50 And he shall reckon with him who bought him from the year that he was sold to him to the year of jubilee, and the price of his sale shall be according to the number of years, according to the time of a hired servant it shall be with him. 51 If many years still remain, according to them he shall give back the price of his redemption out of the money that he was bought for. 52 And if only a few years remain until the year of jubilee, then he shall count with him, and according to his years he shall give him back the price of his redemption. 53 And as a yearly hired servant he shall be with him. And the other shall not rule with rigor over him in your sight. 54 And if he is not redeemed in these years, then he shall go out in the year of jubilee—both he and his children with him. 55 For to me the children of Israel are servants. They are my servants whom I brought out of the land of Egypt. I am the LORD your God.'"

[#lev026%breakable]
=== Chapter 26

[.outline.text-center]
_Of idolatry, 1. Religiousness, 2. A blessing to those who keep the commandments, 3-13. A curse to those who break them, 14-39. God promises to remember those who repent, 40-46._

1 "'You shall make for yourselves no idols nor engraved image, neither rear up for yourselves a standing image, neither shall you set up any image of stone in your land to bow down to it. For I am the LORD your God. 2 You shall keep my sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary. I am the LORD. 3 If you walk in my statutes, keep my commandments, and do them, 4 Then I will give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield her increase and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit, 5 And your threshing shall reach to the vintage and the vintage shall reach to the sowing time, and you shall eat your bread to the full and dwell in your land safely. 6 And I will give peace in the land, and you shall lie down and no one shall make you afraid. And I will rid the land of evil beasts, neither shall the sword go through your land. 7 And you shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword. 8 And five of you shall chase one hundred, and one hundred of you shall put ten thousand to flight. And your enemies shall fall before you by the sword. 9 For I will have respect to you, make you fruitful, multiply you, and establish my covenant with you. 10 And you shall eat old store and bring forth the old because of the new. 11 And I will set my tabernacle among you and my soul shall not abhor you. 12 And I will walk among you and will be your God, and you shall be my people. 13 I am the LORD your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt so that you should not be their slaves, and I have broken the bars of your yoke and made you go upright.

14 'But if you will not listen to me and will not do all these commandments, 15 And if you despise my statutes or if your soul abhors my judgments so that you will not do all my commandments, but that you break my covenant, 16 I also will do this to you: I will even appoint over you terror, consumption, and the fever that shall consume the eyes and cause sorrow of heart. And you shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it. 17 And I will set my face against you, and you shall be slain before your enemies. Those who hate you shall reign over you, and you shall flee when no one pursues you. 18 And if you will not yet for all this listen to me, then I will punish you seven times more for your sins. 19 And I will break the pride of your power. And I will make your heaven as iron and your earth as brass. 20 And your strength shall be spent in vain, for your land shall not yield her increase, neither shall the trees of the land yield their fruits.

21 'And if you walk contrary to me and will not listen to me, I will bring seven times more plagues upon you according to your sins. 22 I will also send wild beasts among you which shall rob you of your children, destroy your livestock, and make you few in number. And your highways shall be desolate.

23 'And if you will not be reformed by me by these things, but will walk contrary to me, 24 Then I will also walk contrary to you and I will punish you yet seven times for your sins. 25 And I will bring a sword upon you that shall avenge the quarrel of my covenant. And when you are gathered within your cities, I will send the pestilence among you, and you shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy. 26 And when I have broken the staff of your bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven and they shall deliver you your bread again by weight, and you shall eat and not be satisfied.

27 'And if you will not for all this listen to me, but walk contrary to me, 28 Then I will walk contrary to you also in fury, and I, even I, will chastise you seven times for your sins. 29 And you shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters you shall eat. 30 And I will destroy your high places, cut down your images, and cast your carcasses upon the carcasses of your idols, and my soul shall abhor you. 31 And I will make your cities waste and bring your sanctuaries to desolation, and I will not smell the savor of your sweet odors. 32 And I will bring the land into desolation, and your enemies who dwell in it shall be astonished at it. 33 And I will scatter you among the heathen and will draw out a sword after you, and your land shall be desolate and your cities waste.

34 'Then the land shall enjoy its sabbaths as long as it lies desolate and you are in your enemies' land. Even then the land shall rest and enjoy its sabbaths. 35 As long as it lies desolate, it shall rest, because it did not rest in your sabbaths when you dwelt upon it. 36 And upon those who are left alive of you, I will send a faintness into their hearts in the lands of their enemies. And the sound of a shaken leaf shall chase them, and they shall flee as fleeing from a sword, and they shall fall when no one pursues. 37 And they shall fall one upon another, as before a sword, when no one pursues. And you shall have no power to stand before your enemies. 38 And you shall perish among the heathen and the land of your enemies shall eat you up. 39 And those who are left of you shall pine away in their iniquity in your enemies' lands, and also in the iniquities of their fathers they shall pine away with them.

40 'If they confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their fathers, with their trespass which they trespassed against me, and that they also have walked contrary to me, 41 And that I also have walked contrary to them and have brought them into the land of their enemies, if then their uncircumcised hearts are humbled and they then accept the punishment of their iniquity, 42 Then I will remember my covenant with Jacob, and I will also remember my covenant with Isaac and also my covenant with Abraham, and I will remember the land. 43 The land shall also be left by them and shall enjoy her sabbaths while she lies desolate without them. And they shall accept the punishment of their iniquity because they despised my judgments and their soul abhorred my statutes. 44 And yet for all that, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not cast them away, neither will I abhor them, to destroy them utterly and to break my covenant with them, for I am the LORD their God. 45 But I will for their sakes remember the covenant of their ancestors, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the heathen, to be their God. I am the LORD.'"

46 These are the statutes, judgments, and laws which the LORD made between him and the children of Israel on mount Sinai by the hand of Moses.

[#lev027%breakable]
=== Chapter 27

[.outline.text-center]
_He who makes a singular vow must be the Lord's, 1, 2. The estimation of the person, 3-8; of a beast given by vow, 9-13; of a house, 14, 15; of a field and the redemption thereof, 16-27. No devoted thing may be redeemed, 28, 29. The tithe may not be changed, 30-34._

1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 2 "Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, 'When a man makes a singular vow, the persons shall be for the LORD by your estimation. 3 And your estimation of a male from twenty years old even to sixty years old, even your estimation shall be fifty shekels of silver after the shekel of the sanctuary. 4 And if it is a female, then your estimation shall be thirty shekels. 5 And if it is from five years old even to twenty years old, then your estimation of a male shall be twenty shekels, and for a female, ten shekels. 6 And if it is from a month old even to five years old, then your estimation of a male shall be five shekels of silver, and for a female your estimation shall be three shekels of silver. 7 And if it is from sixty years old and above, if a male, then your estimation shall be fifteen shekels, and for a female, ten shekels. 8 But if he is poorer than your estimation, then he shall present himself before the priest, and the priest shall value him. According to the ability of him who vowed the priest shall value him.

9 'And if it is a beast of which men bring an offering to the LORD, all that any man gives of such to the LORD shall be holy. 10 He shall not alter it, nor exchange it, a good for a bad or a bad for a good. And if he at all exchanges beast for beast, then it and its exchange shall be holy. 11 And if it is any unclean beast, of which they do not offer a sacrifice to the LORD, then he shall present the beast before the priest, 12 And the priest shall value it, whether it is good or bad. As you value it, who are the priest, so it shall be. 13 But if he will at all redeem it, then he shall add a fifth part of it to your estimation.

14 'And when a man sanctifies his house to be holy to the LORD, the priest shall estimate it, whether it is good or bad. As the priest estimates it, so it shall stand. 15 And if he who sanctified it will redeem his house, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your estimation to it and it shall be his.

16 'And if a man sanctifies to the LORD some part of a field of his possession, then your estimation shall be according to its seed. A homer of barley seed shall be valued at fifty shekels of silver. 17 If he sanctifies his field from the year of jubilee, according to your estimation it shall stand. 18 But if he sanctifies his field after the jubilee, then the priest shall reckon to him the money according to the years that remain, even to the year of the jubilee, and it shall be abated from your estimation. 19 And if he who sanctified the field will in any way redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your estimation to it and it shall be assured to him. 20 And if he will not redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed anymore. 21 But the field, when it goes out in the jubilee, shall be holy to the LORD as a field devoted. Its possession shall be the priest's. 22 And if a man sanctifies to the LORD a field which he has bought, which is not part of the fields of his possession, 23 Then the priest shall reckon to him the worth of your estimation, even to the year of the jubilee, and he shall give your estimation in that day, as a holy thing to the LORD. 24 In the year of the jubilee, the field shall return to him from whom it was bought, even to him to whom the possession of the land belonged. 25 And all your estimations shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Twenty gerahs shall be the shekel.

26 'Only the first-born of the beasts, which should be the LORD'S first-born, no man shall sanctify it, whether ox or sheep. It is the LORD'S. 27 And if it is an unclean beast, then he shall redeem it, according to your estimation, and shall add to it a fifth part of it. Or if it is not redeemed, then it shall be sold according to your estimation.

28 'But no devoted thing that a man devotes to the LORD of all that he has, both of man and beast and of the field of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed. Every devoted thing is most holy to the LORD. 29 No one devoted who is devoted by men shall be redeemed, but shall surely be put to death.

30 'And all the tithe of the land, whether from the seed of the land or from the fruit of the tree, is the LORD'S. It is holy to the LORD. 31 And if a man will at all redeem anything of his tithes, he shall add to it its fifth part. 32 And concerning the tithe of the herd or of the flock, even of whatever passes under the rod, the tenth shall be holy to the LORD. 33 He shall not search whether it is good or bad, neither shall he exchange it. And if he exchanges it at all, then both it and its exchange shall be holy. It shall not be redeemed.'"

34 These are the commandments which the LORD commanded Moses for the children of Israel on mount Sinai.

[.text-center]
_[Tanach reading: go to xref:#numbers[Numbers]]_
