////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#philippians]
== Paul's Letter to the Philippians

*Philippians | Προς Φιλιππησίοις*

[#phl001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_Paul testifies his thankfulness to God and his love toward the Philippians for the fruits of their faith and fellowship in his sufferings, 1-8; daily praying to him for their increase in grace, 9-11; he shows what good the faith of Christ had received by his troubles at Rome, 12-20; and how ready he is to glorify Christ either by his life or death, 21-26; exhorting them to unity, 27; and to fortitude in persecution, 28-30._

1 Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:

2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

3 I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, 4 Always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy, 5 For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, 6 Being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ, 7 Even as it is proper for me to think this of you all because I have you in my heart, for both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers of my grace. 8 For God is my witness, how greatly I long after you all in the tender affection of Jesus Christ. 9 And this I pray: that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment, 10 That you may approve things that are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense until the day of Christ, 11 Being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.

12 But I wish you to understand, brothers, that the things which happened to me have turned out rather for the furtherance of the gospel, 13 So that my bonds in Christ are manifest throughout the whole praetorian guard and to all the rest, 14 And that many of the brothers in the Lord, becoming confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. 15 Some indeed preach Christ even from envy and strife, and some also from good will. 16 The former preach Christ from contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds, 17 But the latter from love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel. 18 What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached, and I therein rejoice. Indeed, I will rejoice. [[phl001-019]]19 For I know that "_this will turn to my salvation_" through your prayers and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, 20 According to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also, Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life, or by death.

21 For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. 22 But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. Yet what I shall choose I do not know. 23 For I am hard pressed between the two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. 24 Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. 25 And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith, 26 So that your rejoicing for me may be more abundant in Jesus Christ by my coming to you again.

27 Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or else am absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand firm in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel, 28 And in nothing terrified by your adversaries—which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that from God. 29 For to you it is given on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake, 30 Having the same conflict which you saw in me and now hear to be in me.

[%breakable]
Old Testament Quotes::
*[v.19]*: xref:#job013-016[Job 13:16].^LXX^

[#phl002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_Paul exhorts them to unity and to all humbleness of mind by the example of Christ's humility and exaltation, 1-11; to a careful proceeding in the way of salvation, that they be as lights to the wicked world, 12-15, and comforts to him their apostle, who is now ready to be offered up to God, 16-18. He hopes to send Timothy to them, and Epaphroditus also, 19-30._

1 If there is therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any inner affections and mercies, 2 Fulfill my joy, that you be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. 3 Let nothing be done through strife or vain glory. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem the other better than themselves— 4 Each of you not looking to his own things, but each of you also to the things of others. 5 Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, 6 Who, being in the form of God, did not deem equality with God as something to be grasped, 7 But emptied himself, taking the form of a slave, being made in the likeness of men. 8 And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to death, even the death of the cross. 9 Therefore, God also has highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name, [[phl002-010]]10 So that at the name of Jesus "_every knee should bow,_" of things in heaven, things on earth, and things under the earth, [[phl002-011]]11 And that "_every tongue should confess_" that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.

12 Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, 13 For it is God who works in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure.

14 Do all things without murmurings and disputings, 15 So that you may be blameless and innocent, the sons of God without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom you shine as lights in the world, 16 Holding forth the word of life, so that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. 17 And if I am even offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all. 18 For the same cause you also should be glad and rejoice with me.

19 But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy shortly to you so that I also may be of good comfort when I know your state. 20 For I have no man like-minded who will naturally care for your state. 21 For all seek their own, not the things of Jesus Christ. 22 But you know the proof of him, that as a son with the father he has served with me in the gospel. 23 Therefore, I hope to send him presently, as soon as I see how it will go with me. 24 But I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly. 25 Yet I supposed it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, companion in labor, and fellow-soldier, but your messenger, and he who ministered to my needs. 26 For he longed after you all and was full of heaviness because you had heard that he was sick. 27 For indeed he was sick, near to death. But God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. 28 I sent him therefore the more speedily, so that when you see him again you may rejoice and that I may be the less sorrowful. 29 Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such in reputation, 30 Because for the work of Christ he was near to death, not regarding his life, to supply that which was lacking in your service toward me.

[%breakable]
Old Testament Quotes::
*[v.10]*: xref:#isa045-023[Isaiah 45:23].^LXX^ *[v.11]*: xref:#isa045-023[Isaiah 45:23].^LXX^ ^(paraphrased)^

[#phl003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_Paul warns them to beware of the false teachers of the circumcision, 1-3; showing that he has greater cause than they do to trust in the righteousness of the law, 4-6; but he renounces it all to gain Christ and his righteousness, 7-11; therein acknowledging his own imperfection, 12-14. He exhorts them to be thus minded, 15, 16; and to imitate him, 17, and to decline the ways of carnal Christians, 18-21._

1 Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe.

2 Beware of dogs. Beware of evil-workers. Beware of the mutilation. 3 For we are the circumcision, who worship God in the Spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh, 4 Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man thinks that he has reason to trust in the flesh, I yet more: 5 Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; with respect to the law, a Pharisee; 6 Concerning zeal, persecuting the church; with respect to the righteousness which is by the law, found blameless.

7 But what things were gain to me, those I counted as loss for Christ. 8 Indeed, I even count all things to be loss for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. For him I have suffered the loss of all things and count them to be dung so that I may win Christ, 9 And be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith, 10 So that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable to his death, 11 If by any means I may attain to the resurrection of the dead.

12 It is not as though I had already attained, or were already perfect, but I pursue, if that I may obtain that for which Christ Jesus also obtained me. 13 Brothers, I do not count myself to have obtained, but this one thing I do: forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead, 14 I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. 15 Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, be thus minded. And if in anything you are otherwise minded, God will reveal even this to you. 16 Nevertheless, to what we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing.

17 Brothers, be followers together of me and mark those who thus walk, as you have us for an example. 18 (For many walk, of whom I have told you often and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ, 19 Whose end is destruction, whose god is their belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who mind earthly things.) 20 For our citizenship is in heaven, from where we also look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, 21 Who will change our vile body so that it may be fashioned like his glorious body, according to the working by which he is able even to subdue all things to himself.

[#phl004%breakable]
=== Chapter 4

[.outline.text-center]
_From particular admonitions, 1-3, Paul proceeds to general exhortations, 4-9, showing how he rejoiced at their liberality toward him lying in prison, not so much for the supply of his own lack as for the grace of God in them, 10-18. And so he concludes with prayer and salutations, 19-23._

1 Therefore, my brothers dearly beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, likewise stand firm in the Lord, my dearly beloved.

2 I exhort Euodias and exhort Syntyche that they be of the same mind in the Lord. 3 And I entreat you also, true companion, help those women who labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with my other fellow-laborers, whose names are in the book of life.

4 Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. 5 Let your gentleness be known to all men. The Lord is at hand. 6 Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. 7 And the peace of God, which passes all understanding, will keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.

8 Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are honest, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if there is any virtue and if there is any praise, think on these things. 9 Do those things which you have learned, received, heard, and seen in me, and the God of peace will be with you.

10 But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last your concern for me has flourished again. You were indeed concerned for me, but you lacked opportunity. 11 It is not that I speak from being in need. For I have learned, in whatever state I am, to be content with that. 12 I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. 13 I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. 14 But you have done well that you shared in my affliction.

15 Now, Philippians, know also, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church had fellowship with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only. 16 For even in Thessalonica you sent once and again for my needs. 17 It is not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. 18 But I have all and abound. I am full, having received from Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well-pleasing to God. 19 But my God will supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. 20 Now to God and our Father be glory forever and ever. Amen.

21 Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you. 22 All the saints salute you, chiefly those who are of Caesar's household.

23 May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
