////
  The Holy Bible: Revised Common Version
  Copyright (c) 2026 William Masopust
  http://www.revisedcommonversion.com
  The source code of the RCV text is available at http://source.rcv.xyz.
  
  This project and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
  terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at 
  https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/.
  
  SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////
[#titus]
== Paul's Letter to Titus

*Titus | Προς Τίτον*

[#tit001%breakable]
=== Chapter 1

[.outline.text-center]
_For what end Titus was left in Crete, 1-5. How those who are to be chosen ministers ought to be qualified, 6-10. The mouths of evil teachers to be stopped, 11; and what manner of men they are, 12-16._

1 Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect and the acknowledging of the truth which is according to godliness, 2 In hope of eternal life which God, who cannot lie, promised before time began, 3 But has in due times manifested his word through preaching, which is committed to me according to the commandment of God our Savior,

4 To Titus, my own son after the common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Savior.

5 For this cause I left you in Crete: that you should set in order the things that are lacking and appoint elders in every city, as I had appointed you, 6 If anyone is blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children, not accused of riot, or disorderly. 7 For an overseer must be blameless as the steward of God, not self-willed, not soon angry, not given to wine, not quarrelsome, not given to filthy lucre, 8 But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate, 9 Holding firm to the faithful word as he has been taught, so that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convict the gainsayers.

10 For there are many disorderly and vain talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision. 11 Their mouths must be stopped, seeing that they subvert whole households, teaching things which they ought not for the sake of sordid gain. 12 One of their own, even a prophet of their own, said, "The Cretians are always liars, evil beasts, idle gluttons." 13 This testimony is true; therefore, rebuke them sharply so that they may be sound in the faith, 14 Not giving heed to Jewish fables and commandments of men who turn from the truth. 15 To the pure all things are pure, but to those who are defiled and unbelieving nothing is pure, but even their mind and conscience is defiled. 16 They profess that they know God, but in works they deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and worthless for every good work.

[#tit002%breakable]
=== Chapter 2

[.outline.text-center]
_Directions given to Titus both for his doctrine and life, 1-8. Of the duty of servants and in general of all Christians, 9-15._

1 But speak the things which are fitting for sound doctrine. 2 The aged men are to be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience. 3 The aged women likewise are to be in behavior as is appropriate for holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things, 4 So that they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, 5 To be discreet, chaste, keepers of the home, good, obedient to their own husbands, so that the word of God may not be blasphemed. 6 Likewise, exhort the young men to be sober-minded. 7 In all things show yourself a pattern of good works. In your doctrine show integrity, gravity, sincerity, 8 Sound speech that cannot be condemned, so that he who is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say concerning you.

9 Exhort servants to be obedient to their own masters and to please them well in all things, not talking back, 10 Not stealing, but showing all good fidelity, so that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Savior in all things.

11 For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, 12 Teaching us, that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and piously in this present age, 13 Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ, 14 Who gave himself for us so that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify for himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works.

15 Speak these things, and exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise you.

[#tit003%breakable]
=== Chapter 3

[.outline.text-center]
_Titus is yet further directed by Paul, both concerning the things he should teach and not teach, 1-9. He is to reject obstinate heretics, 10, 11. He appoints him time and place wherein he should come to him, 12-15._

1 Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready for every good work, 2 To speak evil of no man, to not be brawlers, but gentle, showing all meekness to all men. 3 For we ourselves were also sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving diverse lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another. 4 But when the kindness of God our Savior and his love toward man appeared— 5 Not by works of righteousness which we did ourselves, but according to his mercy—he saved us by the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit, 6 Which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior, 7 So that being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. 8 This is a faithful saying, and these things I wish that you affirm constantly so that those who have believed in God may be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable to men. 9 But avoid foolish questions, genealogies, contentions, and strivings about the law, for they are unprofitable and vain. 10 Reject a man who is a heretic after the first and second admonition, 11 Knowing that he who is such is perverted and sins, being self-condemned.

12 When I send Artemas to you, or Tychicus, be diligent to come to me to Nicopolis, for I have determined to winter there. 13 Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently so that nothing may be lacking for them. 14 And let our people also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses so that they may not be unfruitful.

15 All who are with me salute you. Greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Amen.
